boris_bikes/walkthroughs/11.md, before:

# Walkthrough - using Instance Variables

[Back to the Challenge](../11_using_instance_variables.md)

Let's consider another user story:

```
As a member of the public
So I can return bikes I've hired
I want to dock my bike at the docking station
```

Let's imagine the kind of `irb` interaction ('manual feature test') that would enable something like this:

```sh
$irb
2.2.0 :001 > require './lib/docking_station'
  => true
2.2.0 :002 > require './lib/bike'
  => true
2.2.0 :003 > bike = Bike.new
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
2.2.0 :004 > docking_station = DockingStation.new
  => #<DockingStation:0x009fe222234258>
2.2.0 :005 > docking_station.dock(bike)
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
```

> Why do we want the final statement `docking_station.dock(bike)` return the docked bike? Would there be benefits to returning a different value, such as the `DockingStation` instance, now containing a bike?

Of course, when we run this in `irb` we get the error `NoMethodError`: at the moment, `DockingStation` instances don't know how to `dock` anything. So: we need to repeat this error as a failure in a Unit Test.

```ruby
# in spec/docking_station_spec.rb
require 'docking_station'
describe DockingStation do
  # existing tests omitted for brevity

  it { is_expected.to respond_to(:dock).with(1).argument }
end
```

Running `rspec`, we get:

```
DockingStation should respond to #dock with 1 argument
     Failure/Error: it { is_expected.to respond_to(:dock).with(1).argument }
       expected #<DockingStation:0x007fc5195d5300> to respond to :dock with 1 argument
     # ./spec/docking_station_spec.rb:11:in `block (2 levels) in <top (required)>'
```

We now have matching errors at both feature and unit test levels! Let's implement code to fix the failure:

```ruby
class DockingStation
  def release_bike
    Bike.new
  end

  def dock(bike)

  end
end
```

Our original feature test should now work - try it in IRB - although clearly the dock method is not doing any useful work yet.  It's tempting to do more, but let's make sure we always to the minimum asked of us by our tests, and then drive any other application code we want to add by writing more tests.

OK, on to the next User Story:

```
As a member of the public
So I can decide whether to use the docking station
I want to see a bike that has been docked
```

This User Story is a little trickier. It asks that we add two abilities to `DockingStation` instances:

1. The ability to _remember_ docked bikes ('state')
2. The ability to _report_ docked bikes ('behaviour')

Both of these abilities center around a single resource - a 'docked bike'. In fact, this is a common pattern in Object-Oriented Programming: both _storing_ something and permitting access to _read_ that thing. It's so common that there is a pretty standard way of doing it: using **attributes**, or **instance variables**.

Since we're following a TDD approach, let's think about our 'manual feature test' first:

```sh
$irb
2.2.0 :001 > require './lib/docking_station'
  => true
2.2.0 :002 > require './lib/bike'
  => true
2.2.0 :003 > bike = Bike.new
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
2.2.0 :004 > docking_station = DockingStation.new
  => #<DockingStation:0x009fe222234258>
2.2.0 :005 > docking_station.dock(bike)
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
2.2.0 :006 > docking_station.bike
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
```

> Racing ahead? You'll see above we're using the `bike` method on `DockingStation` instances to return a docked `Bike` instance. But real-life docking stations can hold many bikes! Why aren't we using a `bikes` method instead, and returning all the docked `Bike` instances in an array? There's method to our madness: try to answer this yourself, thinking about the 'simplest thing first' methodology of Test-Driven Development.

Right now, the last line gives us another `NoMethodError`. Let's reproduce that at the Unit level:

```ruby
# in docking_station_spec.rb
describe DockingStation do
  # existing tests omitted for brevity

  it { is_expected.to respond_to(:bike) }
end
```

Bingo, same failure when running `rspec`. So, to resolve it at the implementation level:

```ruby
# in docking_station.rb
class DockingStation
  # existing methods omitted for brevity

  def bike
  end
end
```

We solved our error and failure! **But** we still haven't passed our 'manual feature test'. Why? Let's revisit it:

```sh
$irb
2.2.0 :001 > require './lib/docking_station'
  => true
2.2.0 :002 > require './lib/bike'
  => true
2.2.0 :003 > bike = Bike.new
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
2.2.0 :004 > docking_station = DockingStation.new
  => #<DockingStation:0x009fe222234258>
2.2.0 :005 > docking_station.dock(bike)
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
2.2.0 :006 > docking_station.bike
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
```

Right now, that last line returns `nil`, instead of the `Bike` instance we created in line 3, and docked in line 5. Let's update our unit tests so they more closely match the kind of output we need in our feature test.

```ruby
# in docking_station_spec.rb
describe DockingStation do
  # some tests omitted for brevity

  # first, let's update our test for #dock
  it 'docks something' do
    bike = Bike.new
    # We want to return the bike we dock
    expect(subject.dock(bike)).to eq bike
  end
end
```

OK, let's run `rspec` and watch it fail. This time, we're failing because our `dock` method returns `nil` instead of the bike we dock. We can fix that:

```ruby
# in docking_station.rb
class DockingStation
  # some existing methods omitted for brevity

  def dock(bike)
    # We need to return the bike we dock
    bike
  end
end
```

OK, we're fixed! Well, sort of. Our unit test passes, so back to our feature test:

```sh
$irb
2.2.0 :001 > require './lib/docking_station'
  => true
2.2.0 :002 > require './lib/bike'
  => true
2.2.0 :003 > bike = Bike.new
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
2.2.0 :004 > docking_station = DockingStation.new
  => #<DockingStation:0x009fe222234258>
2.2.0 :005 > docking_station.dock(bike)
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
2.2.0 :006 > docking_station.bike
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
```

Line 5 is doing what we want, but line 6 is not (we're still returning `nil` instead of the docked `Bike` instance). Let's write a Unit Test to mirror the issue we're seeing here:

```rb
# in docking_station_spec.rb
describe DockingStation do
  # some tests omitted for brevity

  # let's update our test for #bike
  it 'returns docked bikes' do
    bike = Bike.new
    subject.dock(bike)
    # Again, we need to return the bike we just docked
    expect(subject.bike).to eq bike
  end
end
```

Run `rspec` to make our failure explicit. The issue? We're returning `nil` instead of the docked `Bike` instance. We need our `DockingStation` instance to _remember_ whatever it docks, and return the contents of its memory.

We can use an **instance variable** to do this:

```ruby
# in docking_station.rb
class DockingStation
  # other methods omitted for brevity

  def dock(bike)
    # Use an instance variable to store the bike
    # in the 'state' of this instance
    @bike = bike
  end

  # let's add to our #bike method to return the
  # bike we docked
  def bike
    @bike
  end
end
```

Now run `rspec`. Our tests should all pass.

Now that we've completed the 'red' and 'green' sections of the red-green-refactor loop, let's _refactor_ our code a little. We can start by using an **attribute reader** to _read_ the `@bike` _attribute_ we set.

Technically, this is an attribute reader:

```ruby
# Read the @bike attribute on an instance
def bike
  @bike
end
```

In Ruby, we have a shorthand way to write exactly this method:

```ruby
# in docking_station.rb
class DockingStation
  # this will essentially write the method above
  # on any instances of this class
  attr_reader :bike
end
```

Using `attr_reader`, we can now remove the `#bike` method we defined, and our tests should still pass (run `rspec` to check).

[Forward to the Challenge Map](../0_challenge_map.md)

Commit message:

Fixing snippets of irb around the use of teh dock and bike methods, also fixing the wording around these snippets

boris_bikes/walkthroughs/11.md, after:

# Walkthrough - using Instance Variables

[Back to the Challenge](../11_using_instance_variables.md)

Let's consider another user story:

```
As a member of the public
So I can return bikes I've hired
I want to dock my bike at the docking station
```

Let's imagine the kind of `irb` interaction ('manual feature test') that would enable something like this:

```sh
$irb
2.2.0 :001 > require './lib/docking_station'
  => true
2.2.0 :002 > require './lib/bike'
  => true
2.2.0 :003 > bike = Bike.new
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
2.2.0 :004 > docking_station = DockingStation.new
  => #<DockingStation:0x009fe222234258>
2.2.0 :005 > docking_station.dock(bike)
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
```

> Why do we want the final statement `docking_station.dock(bike)` return the docked bike? Would there be benefits to returning a different value, such as the `DockingStation` instance, now containing a bike?

Of course, when we run this in `irb` we get the error `NoMethodError`: at the moment, `DockingStation` instances don't know how to `dock` anything. So: we need to repeat this error as a failure in a Unit Test.

```ruby
# in spec/docking_station_spec.rb
require 'docking_station'
describe DockingStation do
  # existing tests omitted for brevity

  it { is_expected.to respond_to(:dock).with(1).argument }
end
```

Running `rspec`, we get:

```
DockingStation should respond to #dock with 1 argument
     Failure/Error: it { is_expected.to respond_to(:dock).with(1).argument }
       expected #<DockingStation:0x007fc5195d5300> to respond to :dock with 1 argument
     # ./spec/docking_station_spec.rb:11:in `block (2 levels) in <top (required)>'
```

We now have matching errors at both feature and unit test levels! Let's implement code to fix the failure:

```ruby
class DockingStation
  def release_bike
    Bike.new
  end

  def dock(bike)

  end
end
```

Our original feature test should now work - try it in IRB - although clearly the dock method is not doing any useful work yet.  It's tempting to do more, but let's make sure we always to the minimum asked of us by our tests, and then drive any other application code we want to add by writing more tests.

OK, on to the next User Story:

```
As a member of the public
So I can decide whether to use the docking station
I want to see a bike that has been docked
```

This User Story is a little trickier. It asks that we add two abilities to `DockingStation` instances:

1. The ability to _remember_ docked bikes ('state')
2. The ability to _report_ docked bikes ('behaviour')

Both of these abilities center around a single resource - a 'docked bike'. In fact, this is a common pattern in Object-Oriented Programming: both _storing_ something and permitting access to _read_ that thing. It's so common that there is a pretty standard way of doing it: using **attributes**, or **instance variables**.

Since we're following a TDD approach, let's think about our 'manual feature test' first:

```sh
$irb
2.2.0 :001 > require './lib/docking_station'
  => true
2.2.0 :002 > require './lib/bike'
  => true
2.2.0 :003 > bike = Bike.new
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
2.2.0 :004 > docking_station = DockingStation.new
  => #<DockingStation:0x009fe222234258>
2.2.0 :005 > docking_station.dock(bike)
  => nil
2.2.0 :006 > docking_station.bike
  => NoMethodError: undefined method `bike' for #<DockingStation:0x009fe222234258>
  ```

> Racing ahead? You'll see above we're using the `bike` method on `DockingStation` instances to return a docked `Bike` instance. But real-life docking stations can hold many bikes! Why aren't we using a `bikes` method instead, and returning all the docked `Bike` instances in an array? There's method to our madness: try to answer this yourself, thinking about the 'simplest thing first' methodology of Test-Driven Development.

Right now, calling the bike method on docking_station gives us a `NoMethodError`. Let's reproduce that at the Unit level:

```ruby
# in docking_station_spec.rb
describe DockingStation do
  # existing tests omitted for brevity

  it { is_expected.to respond_to(:bike) }
end
```

Bingo, same failure when running `rspec`. So, to resolve it at the implementation level:

```ruby
# in docking_station.rb
class DockingStation
  # existing methods omitted for brevity

  def bike
  end
end
```

We solved our error and failure! **But** we still haven't passed our 'manual feature test'. Why? Let's revisit it:

```sh
$irb
2.2.0 :001 > require './lib/docking_station'
  => true
2.2.0 :002 > require './lib/bike'
  => true
2.2.0 :003 > bike = Bike.new
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
2.2.0 :004 > docking_station = DockingStation.new
  => #<DockingStation:0x009fe222234258>
2.2.0 :005 > docking_station.dock(bike)
  => nil
2.2.0 :006 > docking_station.bike
  => nil
```

Right now, both the dock and bike methods return `nil`. Let's fix our dock method first. Let's update our unit tests so they more closely match the kind of output we need in our feature test.

```ruby
# in docking_station_spec.rb
describe DockingStation do
  # some tests omitted for brevity

  # first, let's update our test for #dock
  it 'docks something' do
    bike = Bike.new
    # We want to return the bike we dock
    expect(subject.dock(bike)).to eq bike
  end
end
```

OK, let's run `rspec` and watch it fail. This time, we're failing because our `dock` method returns `nil` instead of the bike we dock. We can fix that:

```ruby
# in docking_station.rb
class DockingStation
  # some existing methods omitted for brevity

  def dock(bike)
    # We need to return the bike we dock
    bike
  end
end
```

OK, we're fixed! Well, sort of. Our unit test passes, so back to our feature test:

```sh
$irb
2.2.0 :001 > require './lib/docking_station'
  => true
2.2.0 :002 > require './lib/bike'
  => true
2.2.0 :003 > bike = Bike.new
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
2.2.0 :004 > docking_station = DockingStation.new
  => #<DockingStation:0x009fe222234258>
2.2.0 :005 > docking_station.dock(bike)
  => #<Bike:0x007fe022230258>
2.2.0 :006 > docking_station.bike
  => nil
```

The dock method is doing what we want, but the bike method is not (we're still returning `nil` instead of the docked `Bike` instance). Let's write a Unit Test to mirror the issue we're seeing here:

```rb
# in docking_station_spec.rb
describe DockingStation do
  # some tests omitted for brevity

  # let's update our test for #bike
  it 'returns docked bikes' do
    bike = Bike.new
    subject.dock(bike)
    # Again, we need to return the bike we just docked
    expect(subject.bike).to eq bike
  end
end
```

Run `rspec` to make our failure explicit. The issue? We're returning `nil` instead of the docked `Bike` instance. We need our `DockingStation` instance to _remember_ whatever it docks, and return the contents of its memory.

We can use an **instance variable** to do this:

```ruby
# in docking_station.rb
class DockingStation
  # other methods omitted for brevity

  def dock(bike)
    # Use an instance variable to store the bike
    # in the 'state' of this instance
    @bike = bike
  end

  # let's add to our #bike method to return the
  # bike we docked
  def bike
    @bike
  end
end
```

Now run `rspec`. Our tests should all pass.

Now that we've completed the 'red' and 'green' sections of the red-green-refactor loop, let's _refactor_ our code a little. We can start by using an **attribute reader** to _read_ the `@bike` _attribute_ we set.

Technically, this is an attribute reader:

```ruby
# Read the @bike attribute on an instance
def bike
  @bike
end
```

In Ruby, we have a shorthand way to write exactly this method:

```ruby
# in docking_station.rb
class DockingStation
  # this will essentially write the method above
  # on any instances of this class
  attr_reader :bike
end
```

Using `attr_reader`, we can now remove the `#bike` method we defined, and our tests should still pass (run `rspec` to check).

[Forward to the Challenge Map](../0_challenge_map.md)
