# Walkthrough - the Single Responsibility Principle

[Back to the Challenge](../15_single_responsibility_principle.md)

We've done RED, we've done GREEN - we haven't done any refactoring recently, so now would be a good time to look for opportunities.

This is a great opportunity to introduce the Single Responsibility Principle (SRP).  Everything in code should have a _single recognizable responsibility_.  Our `DockingStation` class is responsible for docking and releasing bikes.  While you might argue that that's _two_ responsibilities(!), they are inextricably dependent on one-another, so it's OK.  But we do separate those responsibilities into individual methods.  Similarly, each method should have a _single responsibility_.  In our code, the `dock` method is responsible for handling the docking of a bike:
```
fail 'Docking station full' if @bikes.count >= 20
@bikes << bike
```
**and** defining the rule for capacity:
```
@bikes.count >= 20
```
This is a bad thing for 2 reasons.  Firstly, because it breaks the single responsibility principle, and secondly because it necessitates an additional cognitive step when reading the code.  As a reader, I am forced to infer that `@bikes.count >= 20` corresonds to the docking station being full.

Let's fix this and improve the readability of our code by introducing private helper methods `empty?` and `full?`. In general we don't write unit tests for private methods. 

> Why do you think that is?

```ruby
class DockingStation
  def initialize
    @bikes = []
  end

  def release_bike
    fail 'No bikes available' if empty?
    @bikes.pop
  end

  def dock(bike)
    fail 'Docking station full' if full?
    @bikes << bike
  end

  private

  def full?
    @bikes.count >= 20
  end

  def empty?
    @bikes.empty?
  end
end
```

Having made the above refactoring, you will of course want to immediately run `rspec` again to ensure that we haven't accidentally introduced any errors.  And of course you'll want to manually test that everything still works in `irb`.

> Unless, of course, you've already created a `feature_spec.rb` file to automate your feature tests. Check [Solution 12](12.md) for more on that.

[Forward to the Challenge Map](../0_challenge_map.md)