# Walkthrough - Mocking Behaviour on Doubles

[Back to the Challenge](../20_mocking_behaviour_on_doubles.md)

Our tests are failing, because our `double`s cannot respond to the methods we need them to.

Take a look at the following test.  In order to test that a broken bike is not released, we have to create a bike and then report it as broken:

```ruby
it 'does not release broken bikes' do
  bike = Bike.new
  bike.report_broken
  subject.dock bike
  expect {subject.release_bike}.to raise_error 'No bikes available'
end
```

This is annoying as we're not interested in testing the bike itself, only that the docking station contains a broken bike and doesn't release it.

What we actually want to test is that `DockingStation` does not release a bike when the bike's `broken?` method is 'truthy' (or it's `working?` method is 'falsy' depending on how you've implemented the feature in your DockingStation).  So what we need is a double that returns `true` when `broken?` is called or `false` when `working?` is called.  We can do this using **method stubs**.  Take a look at the following code:

```ruby
it 'does not release broken bikes' do
  bike = double(:bike)
  allow(bike).to receive(:broken?).and_return(true)
  subject.dock bike
  expect {subject.release_bike}.to raise_error 'No bikes available'
end
```

The additional line, starting with `allow`, simply tells our double to respond to a `broken?` method and return `true`.

If we know the method a double should stub at the point we create the double, we can use a shorthand syntax:

```ruby
# this is the same as the test above
it 'does not release broken bikes' do
  # see how we move the allow() statement
  # into the double creation statement
  bike = double(:bike, broken?: true)
  subject.dock bike
  expect {subject.release_bike}.to raise_error 'No bikes available'
end
```

We can mock behaviour on most of our doubles this way.

Sometimes, mocking behaviour will reveal a weakness in our design. This is a great advantage to thoroughly isolating tests.

Let's take a look at one of the last remaining reference to `Bike` in our docking station unit tests:

```ruby
# in docking_station_spec.rb
it 'releases working bikes' do
  subject.dock Bike.new
  bike = subject.release_bike
  expect(bike).to be_working
end
```

Bizarrely, although this is a `DockingStation` unit test, our expectation is on `bike`!  Because we wrote the test against the actual `Bike` class, it wasn't immediately obvious that this is a poor test.  However, when we replace it with a double, it becomes more obvious:

```ruby
it 'releases working bikes' do
  subject.dock double(:bike, broken?: false)
  bike = subject.release_bike
  expect(bike).to be_working
end
```

We've explicitly defined a bike double that returns `false` when `broken?` is called because we used the `broken?` method in our `DockingStation` to test whether a bike can be released.  You may have it the other way around (you might test `working?` instead).  Either way, we will eventually expose a subtle problem.

```
Failures:

  1) DockingStation releases working bikes
     Failure/Error: expect(bike.working?).to be true
       Double :bike received unexpected message :working? with (no args)
     # ./spec/docking_station_spec.rb:9:in `block (2 levels) in <top (required)>'
```

Our test is failing because in our expectation, we are calling a method on our double that is not defined (`working?`).  To pass it, we would have to do define the `working?` method too, like this:

```
subject.dock double :bike, broken?: false, working?: true
```

This mocking is getting ridiculous.  Now we are testing that our double returns `true` for `working?`, and `false` for `broken?`. One of those pieces of information should be enough.

What we really want to test is that if there's one working bike in the docking station, then that same bike gets returned by `release_bike`.  The *feature test* takes care of also testing that the bike that comes out is working.

Rewriting our unit test:

```ruby
it 'releases working bikes' do
  bike = double(:bike, broken?: false)
  subject.dock bike
  expect(subject.release_bike).to be bike
end
```

Of course, we are introducing doubles retrospectively and normally we would use doubles from the very start, so issues like this would be less likely to arise.

> This particular style of testing - where every dependency is mocked out using doubles is called the 'London' style.  There is another style called the 'Chicago' style.  Research these two styles with your pair partner and discuss each approach.  Which do you prefer?  Why?

[Back to the Challenge Map](../0_challenge_map.md)
