# Walkthrough - Men with Ven

[Back to the Challenge](../21_men_with_ven.md)

The relevant user stories here are:

```
As a maintainer of the system,
So that I can manage broken bikes and not disappoint users,
I'd like vans to take broken bikes from docking stations and deliver them to garages to be fixed.

As a maintainer of the system,
So that I can manage broken bikes and not disappoint users,
I'd like vans to collect working bikes from garages and distribute them to docking stations.
```

Let's follow the technique from the previous stages to design manual feature tests and then unit tests to drive the functionality of the Van and the Garage.  **The user stories above have multiple clauses in their task components**; should we break them out into separate features?

Also, before writing more code, let's think about what the other classes are and why we need them, starting with the van.

The van is moving broken bikes from the stations to the garage. Once they are fixed, the van moves them back to the stations. So the van must be able to accept the bikes at the source and release them at the destination. Obviously, the van must have some limit on the capacity, just like the station.

However, the van isn't going to be very different from the station. It may have some additional methods to interact with the station and the garage but overall it's fairly similar to the station.

The situation with the garage is very similar. What's the difference between a garage and a docking station? Only a van is supposed to take bikes out of a garage. Also, the bikes get fixed once they get to the garage. Otherwise, the garage is not much different from the station.

This solution will not explicitly build the Van and Garage classes for you, as they are almost identical to the DockingStation class you already have.

Once you have implemented them, you will notice that you are duplicating a lot of code across classes. This is a great time to refactor our code using a _mixin_, which can share behaviour across classes. Let's do that now.

[Forward to the Challenge Map](../0_challenge_map.md)