bookmark_manager/solutions/18.md, before:

# Solution

[Back to Challenge](../18_adding_user_accounts.md)

#Adding user accounts

We want users to be able to register on the website, so that every link and tag could be attributed to a specific user.

We want to have a separate database table for all our users. For this we'll need to have a User model that will store the email and password-related information (hash, salt).

## Signing up

Let's begin with a test:

```ruby
# spec/features/user_management_spec.rb
feature 'User sign up' do
  scenario 'I can sign up as a new user' do
    visit '/users/new'
    expect(page.status_code).to eq(200)
    fill_in :email,    with: 'alice@example.com'
    fill_in :password, with: 'oranges!'
    click_button 'Sign up'
    
    expect { sign_up }.to change(User, :count).by(1)
    expect(page).to have_content('Welcome, alice@example.com')
    expect(User.first.email).to eq('alice@example.com')
  end
end
```

Running the test tells us that we don't have the User class.

Let's create a basic model in `app/models/user.rb`.

```ruby
class User
  include DataMapper::Resource

  property :id, Serial
  property :email, String

end
```

We will also require this new model into the `data_mapper_setup`


```ruby
# app/data_mapper_setup.rb

...
require_relative 'models/user'
```

The next error in our test suite is a Status 404 - not found.
That's easy to fix by updating `app.rb`:

```ruby
get '/users/new' do
  erb :'users/new'
end

```

and ```app/views/users/new.erb```.

```html
<h1>Please sign up</h1>

<form action='/users' method='post'>
  <label for='email'>
    Email: <input name='email' type='text'>
  </label>
  <label for='password'>
    Password: <input name='password' type='password'>
  </label>
  <input type='submit' value='Sign up'>
</form>
```

Now the test will be able to fill out the form but the form submits to the route POST `/users` that doesn't exist yet.

Let's fix this:

```ruby
# ./app/app.rb

post '/users' do
  User.create(email: params[:email],
              password: params[:password])
  redirect to('/links')
end
```

Our User model doesn't know anything about the password, so our test still fails:

```
1) User sign up I can sign up a new user
    Failure/Error: click_button 'Sign up'
    ArgumentError:
      The attribute 'password' is not accessible in User
```

Let's extend our User class.

```ruby
# bcrypt will generate the password hash
require 'bcrypt' # make sure 'bcrypt' is in your Gemfile

class User

  include DataMapper::Resource

  property :id, Serial
  property :email, String
  # this will store both the password and the salt
  # It's Text and not String because String holds
  # only 50 characters by default
  # and it's not enough for the hash and salt
  property :password_digest, Text

  # when assigned the password, we don't store it directly
  # instead, we generate a password digest, that looks like this:
  # "$2a$10$vI8aWBnW3fID.ZQ4/zo1G.q1lRps.9cGLcZEiGDMVr5yUP1KUOYTa"
  # and save it in the database. This digest, provided by bcrypt,
  # has both the password hash and the salt. We save it to the
  # database instead of the plain password for security reasons.
  def password=(password)
    self.password_digest = BCrypt::Password.create(password)
  end

end
```

Now our user is created in the database but the test would still fail because it expects to see a welcome message for the user. Let's log in the user automatically on sign up. To do this, we'll store the user id in the session.

First, we need to enable the sessions and set the encryption key to make sure nobody can tamper with our cookies.

This is done by changing Sinatra's configuration:

```ruby
# ./app/app.rb
...
# within the body of the Sinatra class
enable :sessions
set :session_secret, 'super secret'
```

Then, let's save the user id in the session after it's created within `app.rb`:

```ruby
post '/users' do
  user = User.create(email: params[:email],
                     password: params[:password])
  session[:user_id] = user.id
  redirect to('/links')
end
```

Now, create a helper method `current_user`, that returns an instance of User for the currently logged-in user.

```ruby
#app/app.rb
...

helpers do
 def current_user
   @current_user ||= User.get(session[:user_id])
 end
end
```

Finally, let's build a layout file in the views folder so that our welcome will be shown on every page.
`app/views/layout.erb`:
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Bookmark Manager</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <% if current_user %>
      Welcome, <%= current_user.email %>
    <% end %>
    <%= yield %>
  </body>
</html>
```

Our test now passes. Don't forget to test the functionality manually and deploy to heroku and do the same online.


[next challenge](../19_password_confirmation.md)

Commit message:

moves sign_up to helper method
otherwise line 29 does  not make any sense

bookmark_manager/solutions/18.md, after:

# Solution

[Back to Challenge](../18_adding_user_accounts.md)

#Adding user accounts

We want users to be able to register on the website, so that every link and tag could be attributed to a specific user.

We want to have a separate database table for all our users. For this we'll need to have a User model that will store the email and password-related information (hash, salt).

## Signing up

Let's begin with a test:

```ruby

# spec/web_helper.rb
def sign_up
  visit '/users/new'
  expect(page.status_code).to eq(200)
  fill_in :email,    with: 'alice@example.com'
  fill_in :password, with: 'oranges!'
  click_button 'Sign up'
end

# spec/features/user_management_spec.rb
feature 'User sign up' do
  scenario 'I can sign up as a new user' do
    expect { sign_up }.to change(User, :count).by(1)
    expect(page).to have_content('Welcome, alice@example.com')
    expect(User.first.email).to eq('alice@example.com')
  end
end
```

Running the test tells us that we don't have the User class.

Let's create a basic model in `app/models/user.rb`.

```ruby
class User
  include DataMapper::Resource

  property :id, Serial
  property :email, String

end
```

We will also require this new model into the `data_mapper_setup`


```ruby
# app/data_mapper_setup.rb

...
require_relative 'models/user'
```

The next error in our test suite is a Status 404 - not found.
That's easy to fix by updating `app.rb`:

```ruby
get '/users/new' do
  erb :'users/new'
end

```

and ```app/views/users/new.erb```.

```html
<h1>Please sign up</h1>

<form action='/users' method='post'>
  <label for='email'>
    Email: <input name='email' type='text'>
  </label>
  <label for='password'>
    Password: <input name='password' type='password'>
  </label>
  <input type='submit' value='Sign up'>
</form>
```

Now the test will be able to fill out the form but the form submits to the route POST `/users` that doesn't exist yet.

Let's fix this:

```ruby
# ./app/app.rb

post '/users' do
  User.create(email: params[:email],
              password: params[:password])
  redirect to('/links')
end
```

Our User model doesn't know anything about the password, so our test still fails:

```
1) User sign up I can sign up a new user
    Failure/Error: click_button 'Sign up'
    ArgumentError:
      The attribute 'password' is not accessible in User
```

Let's extend our User class.

```ruby
# bcrypt will generate the password hash
require 'bcrypt' # make sure 'bcrypt' is in your Gemfile

class User

  include DataMapper::Resource

  property :id, Serial
  property :email, String
  # this will store both the password and the salt
  # It's Text and not String because String holds
  # only 50 characters by default
  # and it's not enough for the hash and salt
  property :password_digest, Text

  # when assigned the password, we don't store it directly
  # instead, we generate a password digest, that looks like this:
  # "$2a$10$vI8aWBnW3fID.ZQ4/zo1G.q1lRps.9cGLcZEiGDMVr5yUP1KUOYTa"
  # and save it in the database. This digest, provided by bcrypt,
  # has both the password hash and the salt. We save it to the
  # database instead of the plain password for security reasons.
  def password=(password)
    self.password_digest = BCrypt::Password.create(password)
  end

end
```

Now our user is created in the database but the test would still fail because it expects to see a welcome message for the user. Let's log in the user automatically on sign up. To do this, we'll store the user id in the session.

First, we need to enable the sessions and set the encryption key to make sure nobody can tamper with our cookies.

This is done by changing Sinatra's configuration:

```ruby
# ./app/app.rb
...
# within the body of the Sinatra class
enable :sessions
set :session_secret, 'super secret'
```

Then, let's save the user id in the session after it's created within `app.rb`:

```ruby
post '/users' do
  user = User.create(email: params[:email],
                     password: params[:password])
  session[:user_id] = user.id
  redirect to('/links')
end
```

Now, create a helper method `current_user`, that returns an instance of User for the currently logged-in user.

```ruby
#app/app.rb
...

helpers do
 def current_user
   @current_user ||= User.get(session[:user_id])
 end
end
```

Finally, let's build a layout file in the views folder so that our welcome will be shown on every page.
`app/views/layout.erb`:
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Bookmark Manager</title>
  </head>

  <body>
    <% if current_user %>
      Welcome, <%= current_user.email %>
    <% end %>
    <%= yield %>
  </body>
</html>
```

Our test now passes. Don't forget to test the functionality manually and deploy to heroku and do the same online.


[next challenge](../19_password_confirmation.md)
