bookmark_manager/solutions/21.md, before:

# Solution

[Back to Challenge](../21_levels_of_validation.md)

# Validating against blank email addresses

```ruby
  scenario "I can't sign up without an email address" do
    expect { sign_up(email: nil) }.not_to change(User, :count)
  end
```

which should fail like so:

```
1) User sign up I can't sign up without an email address
    Failure/Error: expect { sign_up(email: nil) }.to change(User, :count).by(0)
      expected #count to have changed by 0, but was changed by 1
```

In general, there are three levels at which you can and should validate data in a well-designed application:

1) You could check it in the browser before the form is submitted.  This can be done with HTML5 or with Javascript, We haven't covered JavaScript yet, so let's focus on an HTML5 solution:

```html
Email: <input name='email' type='text' value='<%= @user.email %>' required>
```

However, you can't rely exclusively on this validation because a post request can be submitted directly without a page ever being rendered.

![alt text](https://dchtm6r471mui.cloudfront.net/hackpad.com_jubMxdBrjni_p.52567_1380107708596_Screen%20Shot%202013-09-25%20at%2012.13.52.png "bookmark manager")

2) You should validate it on the server using model validations. This will help you to display meaningful error messages.   Also, it ensures data integrity issues can't be introduced at the model level.  So, for our required email validation:

```ruby
validates_presence_of :email
```

This DataMapper validation will prevent the model from saving if the email is blank.

3) You must introduce database-level constraints. These ensure data integrity in the database in case data is written directly, bypassing the model. For example, if you need to batch import 10,000 new users from a text file, you may not want to initialize your User model for every record for performance reasons. Instead, you'll write to the database directly. To account for any cases when you may want to write to the database bypassing your models, you need to have database-level constraints.

```ruby
# /app/models/user.rb
property :email, String, required: true
```

This will generate a `NOT NULL` constraint on the `users` table.
```sql
CREATE TABLE "users" ("id" SERIAL NOT NULL, "email" VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL, "password_digest" VARCHAR(60), PRIMARY KEY("id"))
```

Interestingly, in DataMapper's case, creating a `required` property implies the necessity of the validation, so this code...

```ruby
validates_presence_of :email
```

...becomes unnecessary. When using other ORMs, double check if creating a unique index implies a model-level validation.

The model should validate that the email is present.  However, beware that unless you ran `auto_migrate!` instead of `auto_upgrade!`, the `NOT NULL` constraint will not have been created on the database!

# Validating against invalid email addresses

```ruby
  scenario "I can't sign up with an invalid email address" do
    expect { sign_up(email: "invalid@email") }.not_to change(User, :count)
  end
```

This should fail like so:

```
1) User sign up I can't sign up with an invalid email address
    Failure/Error: expect { sign_up(email: "invalid@email") }.to change(User, :count).by(0)
      expected #count to have changed by 0, but was changed by 1
```

For the HTML level validation we can change the field input type to `email` which ensures that you have an `@` with characters on either side, but this will not pass our test, but is a good defense for basic validation.

```html
Email: <input name='email' type='email' value='<%= @user.email %>' required>
```

DataMapper comes with a variety of validations, one of which is for email addreses. If you validate the format in your model, your test should then pass:

```ruby
  # app/models/user.rb
  
  validates_format_of :email, as: :email_address
```

[next challenge](../22_preventing_duplicate_registrations.md)

Commit message:

validates_format_of :email can be refactored
Additional refactoring is possible - format validations can be done in the property line, which is easier to remember and code.

bookmark_manager/solutions/21.md, after:

# Solution

[Back to Challenge](../21_levels_of_validation.md)

# Validating against blank email addresses

```ruby
  scenario "I can't sign up without an email address" do
    expect { sign_up(email: nil) }.not_to change(User, :count)
  end
```

which should fail like so:

```
1) User sign up I can't sign up without an email address
    Failure/Error: expect { sign_up(email: nil) }.to change(User, :count).by(0)
      expected #count to have changed by 0, but was changed by 1
```

In general, there are three levels at which you can and should validate data in a well-designed application:

1) You could check it in the browser before the form is submitted.  This can be done with HTML5 or with Javascript, We haven't covered JavaScript yet, so let's focus on an HTML5 solution:

```html
Email: <input name='email' type='text' value='<%= @user.email %>' required>
```

However, you can't rely exclusively on this validation because a post request can be submitted directly without a page ever being rendered.

![alt text](https://dchtm6r471mui.cloudfront.net/hackpad.com_jubMxdBrjni_p.52567_1380107708596_Screen%20Shot%202013-09-25%20at%2012.13.52.png "bookmark manager")

2) You should validate it on the server using model validations. This will help you to display meaningful error messages.   Also, it ensures data integrity issues can't be introduced at the model level.  So, for our required email validation:

```ruby
validates_presence_of :email
```

This DataMapper validation will prevent the model from saving if the email is blank.

3) You must introduce database-level constraints. These ensure data integrity in the database in case data is written directly, bypassing the model. For example, if you need to batch import 10,000 new users from a text file, you may not want to initialize your User model for every record for performance reasons. Instead, you'll write to the database directly. To account for any cases when you may want to write to the database bypassing your models, you need to have database-level constraints.

```ruby
# /app/models/user.rb
property :email, String, required: true
```

This will generate a `NOT NULL` constraint on the `users` table.
```sql
CREATE TABLE "users" ("id" SERIAL NOT NULL, "email" VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL, "password_digest" VARCHAR(60), PRIMARY KEY("id"))
```

Interestingly, in DataMapper's case, creating a `required` property implies the necessity of the validation, so this code...

```ruby
validates_presence_of :email
```

...becomes unnecessary. When using other ORMs, double check if creating a unique index implies a model-level validation.

The model should validate that the email is present.  However, beware that unless you ran `auto_migrate!` instead of `auto_upgrade!`, the `NOT NULL` constraint will not have been created on the database!

# Validating against invalid email addresses

```ruby
  scenario "I can't sign up with an invalid email address" do
    expect { sign_up(email: "invalid@email") }.not_to change(User, :count)
  end
```

This should fail like so:

```
1) User sign up I can't sign up with an invalid email address
    Failure/Error: expect { sign_up(email: "invalid@email") }.to change(User, :count).by(0)
      expected #count to have changed by 0, but was changed by 1
```

For the HTML level validation we can change the field input type to `email` which ensures that you have an `@` with characters on either side, but this will not pass our test, but is a good defense for basic validation.

```html
Email: <input name='email' type='email' value='<%= @user.email %>' required>
```

DataMapper comes with a variety of validations, one of which is for email addreses. If you validate the format in your model, your test should then pass:

```ruby
  # app/models/user.rb
  
  validates_format_of :email, as: :email_address
```

DataMapper also can support this being stated when defining the `:email` property like so:

`property :email, String, unique: true, format: :email_address, required: true`
The docs have more information on the types of validations and syntactic sugar available to you.

[next challenge](../22_preventing_duplicate_registrations.md)
