battle_ships_web.md, before:

# Playing Battleships in the browser

***Please note, as with all Makers Academy materials, there may be subtle errors in the following materials.  Please try to approach those as challenges on which to polish your debugging skills - pull requests always welcome.***

In this project we are going to improve on our battleships game.
In [the last project](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/master/battle_ships.md) we implemented the battleships game for the terminal.

Whilst interacting with the computer on the terminal is an essential skill for us developer types, it is far from the preferred way to interact with computers for people in general. Before you even knew there was a terminal you likely did almost everything on a computer via a graphical interface of some sort; either through a dedicated desktop application or through a browser.

Back in the day the terminal was the only way to interact with a computer, but nowadays applications are much richer in colours and interactions, they feel smoother and friendlier than the terminal does.

The web offers a wonderful plethora of technologies and possibilities to build applications.  Web applications that run in a browser are different from dedicated desktop applications (like MS Word) that have to be installed separately on each individual computer.  Web applications can be accessed from any computer that has a browser, simply by pointing the browser at the correct web page or URL (Uniform Resource Locator, e.g. http://google.com).  This means if you want to create a new 'app' you can just share the link to it, rather than having to ask your users to go through a potentially complex and error prone installation process.  The flipside is browser compatibility issues, but more on that later.

**In the meantime, how about being able to play battleships in a browser?**

In order to share whatever we're building on our computer with the rest of the world, on the Web, we need to learn how to build web applications using _"web application frameworks"_.

Have you heard of Ruby-on-Rails? Ruby here is the language whereas Rails is the web application framework. A Ruby-on-Rails application is one that uses the Rails web application framework with the Ruby language.

A web application framework for Ruby is a gem (library) that provides support to make our Ruby code accessible to the web browser. There are plenty of web application frameworks available for the Ruby language; the two we focus on in the Makers Academy course are Sinatra and Rails, in that particular order.

## Why start with Sinatra?

Sinatra, unlike Rails, has a minimal feature set that will allow us to keep our web applications very simple. Because of Sinatra's simplicity, we will be able to focus on the basic elements of a web application, as opposed to the features of the framework. Once you have a good understanding of how Sinatra applications work, it will be much easier to get a deeper understanding of how Ruby on Rails works.

Despite its simplicity, Sinatra is very powerful. A large number of websites and applications are built on Sinatra. There's a very incomplete list of [companies using it in the wild](http://www.sinatrarb.com/wild.html). The real number is certainly orders of magnitude bigger.

***As usual please work on this project with a pair partner. Please take turns on the keyboard as the driver as described in the [pairing pill](pills/pairing.md) :pill:.***

## Prerequisites

Please ensure you have a good understanding of [Sinatra](pills/sinatra_1.md) :pill: and [Cucumber](pills/cucumber.md) :pill: before starting this project.  Cucumber is an alternative testing framework to RSpec, that also works with RSpec - please refer to the pills for details.

## Version 0: Setting up

The first thing we have to do is to setup our project so that it's ready for us to start working on it.

Last week you created a playable battleships game for the terminal. You separated the logic of the game from the view ( _how the game is presented to the players_ ), making it modifiable in terms of what interface it is played through, e.g. terminal, web, desktop app etc.  **If you were unable to separate your game logic from your view logic here is a [version](https://github.com/makersacademy/battle_ships_september) of battleships game engine you can use as an alternative.**

First we need to make sure that the code we wrote for battleships is in the right places. As before we will need a ``lib`` and a ``spec`` directory.   [Sinatra](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/master/pills/sinatra_1.md) can work with just these directories, but in a _"real"_ project you will see a few more. By the end of this project our directory structure will look a little more complex than anything we have seen so far:

```
.
|---README.md
|---config.ru
|---Gemfile
|---Gemfile.lock
|---features
    |---step_definitions
    |---support
|---lib
|---public
|---spec
|---views
    |---styles
    |---layouts
```

We will review what all these files and directories do as we come to them.

 **First things first! We need a Gemfile!**

Before we go off creating lots of directories, let's start with a Gemfile. Our Gemfile helps us to keep track of the [gems](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/master/pills/gems.md) ( _and the versions of the gems_ ) we want to use in our project, so that when we clone the project from another computer we'll be able to  have all we need. Let's look at the Gemfile we are going to need during our project:

```ruby
source 'https://rubygems.org'

gem 'sinatra'

group :development, :test do
  gem 'capybara'
  gem 'cucumber'
  gem 'cucumber-sinatra'
  gem 'launchy'
  gem 'rspec'
  gem 'shotgun'
end
```

_You might have noticed that we have ordered the gems alphabetically. This is for practical reasons. In bigger projects that use a lot of different gems we want to make sure that we find them in our Gemfile fairly quickly._

Once you've bundled the `Gemfile` run `rspec` and make sure everything is working ( _did you remember to add your code into the lib and spec directories?_ ).

Now that your specs are passing and the code is all in place we are ready to start working on our battleships online game!

## Version 1: Building an application from the outside in

Everything is setup and ready, but how do we start? If you have been following best practices you know that you have to write a failing test before you write any code. That was a relatively easy task when we were talking about simpler applications. This time though we are building a full fledged web application; our friends and family can play with our app!

**Let's get started then, shall we?**

One of the gems you should have in your system now is ``cucumber-sinatra``. This gem will help you setting up cucumber.

Cucumber is a testing tool written by Aslak Hellesøy that let's you describe your application in plain english. The description of your system, the features, will interact with your application and prove that it works as described ([Cucumber Pill](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/master/pills/cucumber.md)).

In your projects directory run:

```shell-session
cucumber-sinatra init --app  BattleShips lib/battleships.rb
Generating with init generator:
     [ADDED]  features/support/env.rb
     [ADDED]  features/support/paths.rb
     [ADDED]  features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb
     [ADDED]  lib/battleships.rb
     [ADDED]  config.ru
```

This has added some directories and files in our application directory. If we run cucumber now we will see the following output:

```shell-session
cucumber
0 scenarios
0 steps
0m0.000s
```

Let's write the first scenario of our first feature (`features/starting_a_game.feature`):

```cucumber
Feature: Starting the game
  In order to play battleships
  As a nostalgic player
  I want to start a new game

  Scenario: Registering
    Given I am on the homepage
    When I follow "New Game"
    Then I should see "What's your name?"
```

Running cucumber now looks very different than it did before:

```shell-session
cucumber
Feature: Starting the game
  In order to play battleships
  As a nostalgic player
  I want to start a new game

  Scenario: Registering                   # features/starting_a_game.feature:6
    Given I am on the homepage            # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:19
    When I follow "New Game"               # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:27
      Unable to find button "New Game" (Capybara::ElementNotFound)
      ./features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:29:in `block (2 levels) in <top (required)>'
      ./features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:14:in `with_scope'
      ./features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:28:in `/^(?:|I )follow "([^\"]*)"(?: within "([^\"]*)")?$/'
      features/starting_a_game.feature:8:in `When I follow "New Game"'
    Then I should see "What's your name?" # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:107

Failing Scenarios:
cucumber features/starting_a_game.feature:6 # Scenario: Registering

1 scenario (1 failed)
3 steps (1 failed, 1 skipped, 1 passed)
0m0.053s
```

**What just happened?** Cucumber is telling us that it cannot find a button named _New Game_ in the homepage. But, how is it possible that cucumber was able to go to the homepage? Which homepage? At this point in time we haven't even created anything apart from our feature file. What's going on?

Start your sinatra application

```shell-session
rackup
[2014-05-19 17:57:39] INFO  WEBrick 1.3.1
[2014-05-19 17:57:39] INFO  ruby 2.1.2 (2014-05-08) [x86_64-darwin13.0]
[2014-05-19 17:57:39] INFO  WEBrick::HTTPServer#start: pid=14728 port=9292
```

and point your browser to your application ( _[http://localhost:9292](http://localhost:9292)_ ).

Why is sinatra greeting us with a "Hello BattleShips!" message?

If you open your `lib/battleships.rb` file you will see why:

````ruby
require 'sinatra/base'

class BattleShips < Sinatra::Base
  get '/' do
    'Hello BattleShips!'
  end

  # start the server if ruby file executed directly
  run! if app_file == $0
end
````

When we initialised cucumber with sinatra-cucumber we told it to generate our application as well. That's why we now have our BattleShips controller returning that greeting.

To make the first step work we need to do a few things:

- create a views directory
- tell our `BattleShips` controller where the views are
- create an `index.erb` file with the html ( _containing a link with the text 'New Game'_ )

Running cucumber again after we have finished these tasks we will see the following:

```shell-session
Feature: Starting the game
  In order to play battleships
  As a nostalgic player
  I want to start a new game

  Scenario: Registering                   # features/starting_a_game.feature:6
    Given I am on the homepage            # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:19
    When I follow "New Game"               # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:27
    Then I should see "What's your name?" # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:107
      expected to find text "What's your name?" in "New Game" (RSpec::Expectations::ExpectationNotMetError)
      ./features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:110:in `block (2 levels) in <top (required)>'
      ./features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:14:in `with_scope'
      ./features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:108:in `/^(?:|I )should see "([^\"]*)"(?: within "([^\"]*)")?$/'
      features/starting_a_game.feature:9:in `Then I should see "What's your name?"'

Failing Scenarios:
cucumber features/starting_a_game.feature:6 # Scenario: Registering

1 scenario (1 failed)
3 steps (1 failed, 2 passed)
```

**We are almost there!** Now we only need to change the button so that it actually takes us to a new page that will ask us for our name. Once we have done this we will see the following output from cucumber:

```shell-session
Feature: Starting the game
  In order to play battleships
  As a nostalgic player
  I want to start a new game

  Scenario: Registering                   # features/starting_a_game.feature:6
    Given I am on the homepage            # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:19
    When I press "New Game"               # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:27
    Then I should see "What's your name?" # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:107

1 scenario (1 passed)
3 steps (3 passed)
0m0.035s
```

OK, our cukes (that's a common name to refer to cucumber features) are passing now, but there is something wrong with the scenario we specified; it said Registering, but we hardly have registered for a new game... Can you modify the scenario to add the necessary steps to make it pass?

**Tasks**

- Add steps to the scenario
- Add a scenario for when the player does not input his name

## Version 2: Making the game playable

We have now the first walking skeleton of our application and we are ready to add more features to describe our application.

For this to happen we need to introduce the concept of a session to our application and make it _remember_ who is playing against whom. We also need to make sure that our application only allows 2 players per game.

**Task: Write the following features (and add the functionality to the application):**

- Registering a second player
- Placing the ships
- Shooting at each others boards in turns
- Winning and loosing

## Version 3: Multigame battleships

Up until now our application has been running only for two players at a time. Can you make it work with any amount of players and games ( obviously with two players per game )?

## Final touches

It would be nice if our battleships game looked like something that people wanted to play with, maybe we should be looking at it :wink:

Once we have added some CSS goodness let's deploy our application to heroku and share it with the world!

**Congratulations! You have released your first application!**

Commit message:

run cucumber init within battleships directory

battle_ships_web.md, after:

# Playing Battleships in the browser

***Please note, as with all Makers Academy materials, there may be subtle errors in the following materials.  Please try to approach those as challenges on which to polish your debugging skills - pull requests always welcome.***

In this project we are going to improve on our battleships game.
In [the last project](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/master/battle_ships.md) we implemented the battleships game for the terminal.

Whilst interacting with the computer on the terminal is an essential skill for us developer types, it is far from the preferred way to interact with computers for people in general. Before you even knew there was a terminal you likely did almost everything on a computer via a graphical interface of some sort; either through a dedicated desktop application or through a browser.

Back in the day the terminal was the only way to interact with a computer, but nowadays applications are much richer in colours and interactions, they feel smoother and friendlier than the terminal does.

The web offers a wonderful plethora of technologies and possibilities to build applications.  Web applications that run in a browser are different from dedicated desktop applications (like MS Word) that have to be installed separately on each individual computer.  Web applications can be accessed from any computer that has a browser, simply by pointing the browser at the correct web page or URL (Uniform Resource Locator, e.g. http://google.com).  This means if you want to create a new 'app' you can just share the link to it, rather than having to ask your users to go through a potentially complex and error prone installation process.  The flipside is browser compatibility issues, but more on that later.

**In the meantime, how about being able to play battleships in a browser?**

In order to share whatever we're building on our computer with the rest of the world, on the Web, we need to learn how to build web applications using _"web application frameworks"_.

Have you heard of Ruby-on-Rails? Ruby here is the language whereas Rails is the web application framework. A Ruby-on-Rails application is one that uses the Rails web application framework with the Ruby language.

A web application framework for Ruby is a gem (library) that provides support to make our Ruby code accessible to the web browser. There are plenty of web application frameworks available for the Ruby language; the two we focus on in the Makers Academy course are Sinatra and Rails, in that particular order.

## Why start with Sinatra?

Sinatra, unlike Rails, has a minimal feature set that will allow us to keep our web applications very simple. Because of Sinatra's simplicity, we will be able to focus on the basic elements of a web application, as opposed to the features of the framework. Once you have a good understanding of how Sinatra applications work, it will be much easier to get a deeper understanding of how Ruby on Rails works.

Despite its simplicity, Sinatra is very powerful. A large number of websites and applications are built on Sinatra. There's a very incomplete list of [companies using it in the wild](http://www.sinatrarb.com/wild.html). The real number is certainly orders of magnitude bigger.

***As usual please work on this project with a pair partner. Please take turns on the keyboard as the driver as described in the [pairing pill](pills/pairing.md) :pill:.***

## Prerequisites

Please ensure you have a good understanding of [Sinatra](pills/sinatra_1.md) :pill: and [Cucumber](pills/cucumber.md) :pill: before starting this project.  Cucumber is an alternative testing framework to RSpec, that also works with RSpec - please refer to the pills for details.

## Version 0: Setting up

The first thing we have to do is to setup our project so that it's ready for us to start working on it.

Last week you created a playable battleships game for the terminal. You separated the logic of the game from the view ( _how the game is presented to the players_ ), making it modifiable in terms of what interface it is played through, e.g. terminal, web, desktop app etc.  **If you were unable to separate your game logic from your view logic here is a [version](https://github.com/makersacademy/battle_ships_september) of battleships game engine you can use as an alternative.**

First we need to make sure that the code we wrote for battleships is in the right places. As before we will need a ``lib`` and a ``spec`` directory.   [Sinatra](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/master/pills/sinatra_1.md) can work with just these directories, but in a _"real"_ project you will see a few more. By the end of this project our directory structure will look a little more complex than anything we have seen so far:

```
.
|---README.md
|---config.ru
|---Gemfile
|---Gemfile.lock
|---features
    |---step_definitions
    |---support
|---lib
|---public
|---spec
|---views
    |---styles
    |---layouts
```

We will review what all these files and directories do as we come to them.

 **First things first! We need a Gemfile!**

Before we go off creating lots of directories, let's start with a Gemfile. Our Gemfile helps us to keep track of the [gems](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/master/pills/gems.md) ( _and the versions of the gems_ ) we want to use in our project, so that when we clone the project from another computer we'll be able to  have all we need. Let's look at the Gemfile we are going to need during our project:

```ruby
source 'https://rubygems.org'

gem 'sinatra'

group :development, :test do
  gem 'capybara'
  gem 'cucumber'
  gem 'cucumber-sinatra'
  gem 'launchy'
  gem 'rspec'
  gem 'shotgun'
end
```

_You might have noticed that we have ordered the gems alphabetically. This is for practical reasons. In bigger projects that use a lot of different gems we want to make sure that we find them in our Gemfile fairly quickly._

Once you've bundled the `Gemfile` run `rspec` and make sure everything is working ( _did you remember to add your code into the lib and spec directories?_ ).

Now that your specs are passing and the code is all in place we are ready to start working on our battleships online game!

## Version 1: Building an application from the outside in

Everything is setup and ready, but how do we start? If you have been following best practices you know that you have to write a failing test before you write any code. That was a relatively easy task when we were talking about simpler applications. This time though we are building a full fledged web application; our friends and family can play with our app!

**Let's get started then, shall we?**

One of the gems you should have in your system now is ``cucumber-sinatra``. This gem will help you setting up cucumber.

Cucumber is a testing tool written by Aslak Hellesøy that let's you describe your application in plain english. The description of your system, the features, will interact with your application and prove that it works as described ([Cucumber Pill](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/master/pills/cucumber.md)).

Within your projects directory, create a Battleships directory and navigate into it, then run:

```shell-session
cucumber-sinatra init --app  BattleShips lib/battleships.rb
Generating with init generator:
     [ADDED]  features/support/env.rb
     [ADDED]  features/support/paths.rb
     [ADDED]  features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb
     [ADDED]  lib/battleships.rb
     [ADDED]  config.ru
```

This has added some directories and files in our application directory. If we run cucumber now we will see the following output:

```shell-session
cucumber
0 scenarios
0 steps
0m0.000s
```

Let's write the first scenario of our first feature (`features/starting_a_game.feature`):

```cucumber
Feature: Starting the game
  In order to play battleships
  As a nostalgic player
  I want to start a new game

  Scenario: Registering
    Given I am on the homepage
    When I follow "New Game"
    Then I should see "What's your name?"
```

Running cucumber now looks very different than it did before:

```shell-session
cucumber
Feature: Starting the game
  In order to play battleships
  As a nostalgic player
  I want to start a new game

  Scenario: Registering                   # features/starting_a_game.feature:6
    Given I am on the homepage            # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:19
    When I follow "New Game"               # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:27
      Unable to find button "New Game" (Capybara::ElementNotFound)
      ./features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:29:in `block (2 levels) in <top (required)>'
      ./features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:14:in `with_scope'
      ./features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:28:in `/^(?:|I )follow "([^\"]*)"(?: within "([^\"]*)")?$/'
      features/starting_a_game.feature:8:in `When I follow "New Game"'
    Then I should see "What's your name?" # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:107

Failing Scenarios:
cucumber features/starting_a_game.feature:6 # Scenario: Registering

1 scenario (1 failed)
3 steps (1 failed, 1 skipped, 1 passed)
0m0.053s
```

**What just happened?** Cucumber is telling us that it cannot find a button named _New Game_ in the homepage. But, how is it possible that cucumber was able to go to the homepage? Which homepage? At this point in time we haven't even created anything apart from our feature file. What's going on?

Start your sinatra application

```shell-session
rackup
[2014-05-19 17:57:39] INFO  WEBrick 1.3.1
[2014-05-19 17:57:39] INFO  ruby 2.1.2 (2014-05-08) [x86_64-darwin13.0]
[2014-05-19 17:57:39] INFO  WEBrick::HTTPServer#start: pid=14728 port=9292
```

and point your browser to your application ( _[http://localhost:9292](http://localhost:9292)_ ).

Why is sinatra greeting us with a "Hello BattleShips!" message?

If you open your `lib/battleships.rb` file you will see why:

````ruby
require 'sinatra/base'

class BattleShips < Sinatra::Base
  get '/' do
    'Hello BattleShips!'
  end

  # start the server if ruby file executed directly
  run! if app_file == $0
end
````

When we initialised cucumber with sinatra-cucumber we told it to generate our application as well. That's why we now have our BattleShips controller returning that greeting.

To make the first step work we need to do a few things:

- create a views directory
- tell our `BattleShips` controller where the views are
- create an `index.erb` file with the html ( _containing a link with the text 'New Game'_ )

Running cucumber again after we have finished these tasks we will see the following:

```shell-session
Feature: Starting the game
  In order to play battleships
  As a nostalgic player
  I want to start a new game

  Scenario: Registering                   # features/starting_a_game.feature:6
    Given I am on the homepage            # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:19
    When I follow "New Game"               # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:27
    Then I should see "What's your name?" # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:107
      expected to find text "What's your name?" in "New Game" (RSpec::Expectations::ExpectationNotMetError)
      ./features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:110:in `block (2 levels) in <top (required)>'
      ./features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:14:in `with_scope'
      ./features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:108:in `/^(?:|I )should see "([^\"]*)"(?: within "([^\"]*)")?$/'
      features/starting_a_game.feature:9:in `Then I should see "What's your name?"'

Failing Scenarios:
cucumber features/starting_a_game.feature:6 # Scenario: Registering

1 scenario (1 failed)
3 steps (1 failed, 2 passed)
```

**We are almost there!** Now we only need to change the button so that it actually takes us to a new page that will ask us for our name. Once we have done this we will see the following output from cucumber:

```shell-session
Feature: Starting the game
  In order to play battleships
  As a nostalgic player
  I want to start a new game

  Scenario: Registering                   # features/starting_a_game.feature:6
    Given I am on the homepage            # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:19
    When I press "New Game"               # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:27
    Then I should see "What's your name?" # features/step_definitions/web_steps.rb:107

1 scenario (1 passed)
3 steps (3 passed)
0m0.035s
```

OK, our cukes (that's a common name to refer to cucumber features) are passing now, but there is something wrong with the scenario we specified; it said Registering, but we hardly have registered for a new game... Can you modify the scenario to add the necessary steps to make it pass?

**Tasks**

- Add steps to the scenario
- Add a scenario for when the player does not input his name

## Version 2: Making the game playable

We have now the first walking skeleton of our application and we are ready to add more features to describe our application.

For this to happen we need to introduce the concept of a session to our application and make it _remember_ who is playing against whom. We also need to make sure that our application only allows 2 players per game.

**Task: Write the following features (and add the functionality to the application):**

- Registering a second player
- Placing the ships
- Shooting at each others boards in turns
- Winning and loosing

## Version 3: Multigame battleships

Up until now our application has been running only for two players at a time. Can you make it work with any amount of players and games ( obviously with two players per game )?

## Final touches

It would be nice if our battleships game looked like something that people wanted to play with, maybe we should be looking at it :wink:

Once we have added some CSS goodness let's deploy our application to heroku and share it with the world!

**Congratulations! You have released your first application!**
