yelpv3.md, before:

| [← Yelp V2](yelpv2.md) | [Yelp home](yelp.md) | Yelp V3 |
|------------------------|----------------------|--------:|

# Yelp

### V3 Walkthrough

In this version of our app, we want to tidy up the UX (user experience). It would be nice if our restaurants showed their average rating. It would also be cool if the page didn't refresh when we clicked on a link but updated dynamically.

Let's see what we can do.

#### Average ratings

We want our restaurants to show their average rating. Test!

##### Feature and unit tests

To `review_feature_spec.rb`, add the below. Here, we've extracted out the leaving review method.

```ruby
def leave_review(thoughts, rating)
  visit '/restaurants'
  click_link 'Review KFC'
  fill_in "Thoughts", with: thoughts
  select rating, from: 'Rating'
  click_button 'Leave Review'
end

it 'displays an average rating for all reviews' do
  leave_review('So so', "3")
  leave_review('Great', "5")
  expect(page).to have_content("Average: 4")
end
```

Now, in our `restaurant_spec.rb`, we add a unit test:

```ruby
...
describe '#average_rating' do
  context 'no reviews' do
    it 'returns "N/A" when there are no reviews' do
      restaurant = Restaurant.create(name: "The Ivy")
      expect(restaruant.average_rating).to eq 'N/A'
    end
  end
end
...
```

##### Making an `average_rating` helper

To make the test pass, we need to update our restaurant model.

`app/models/restaurant.rb`:

```ruby
def average_rating
  'N/A'
end
```

This passes the test so far, but obviously isn't very useful. Now we need a test in the case of having one review, and then one for when it has two or more reviews.

`restaurant_spec.rb`:

```ruby
...
context '1 review' do
  it 'returns that rating' do
    restaurant = Restaurant.create(name: "The Ivy")
    restaurant.reviews.create(rating: 4)
    expect(restaurant.average_rating).to eq 4
  end
end
...
```

Let's update our `average_rating` method.

`app/models/restaurant.rb`:

```ruby
def average_rating
  return 'N/A' if reviews.none?
  reviews.inject(0) {|memo, review| memo + review.rating}
end
```

And now for multiple reviews...

`restaurant_spec.rb`:

```ruby
...
context 'multiple reviews' do
  it 'returns the average' do
    restaurant = Restaurant.create(name: "The Ivy")
    restaurant.reviews.create(rating: 1)
    restaurant.reviews.create(rating: 5)
    expect(restaurant.average_rating).to eq 3
  end
end
...
```

And update our `average_rating` method...

`app/models/restaurant.rb`:

```ruby
def average_rating
  return 'N/A' if reviews.none?
  reviews.inject(0) {|memo, review| memo + review.rating} / reviews.count
end
```

(Note that without using `.to_f` to convert integers to floats, you would find you would only ever have whole number averages.)

**BUT!** Rails has a built-in helper method for this. You could instead just do this:

```ruby
reviews.average(:rating)
```

Easy.

##### Displaying the average rating

Now, add some code to the index page to display this average beside each restaurant.

```erb
...
<h3>Average rating: <%= restaurant.average_rating.to_i %></h3>
...
```

##### Stars make things pretty

But we can do better than that. Yelp uses star ratings which are a nice way of showing a restaurant's rating. We can do something similar just by using the Unicode 'star' characters.

Specifically, we can use these two glyphs:

> BLACK STAR (U+2605)
> ★
  
> WHITE STAR (U+2606)
> ☆

Let's change the feature spec to expect that output.

```ruby
it "displays an average rating for all reviews" do
  leave_review("so so", "3")
  leave_review("Great!", "5")
  expect(page).to have_content("Average rating: ★★★★☆")
end
```

And now let's make sure the page uses the UTF-8 character set, otherwise those Unicode stars won't render properly.

Somewhere in the layout `head` section you'll need to have this `meta` tag:

```erb
<meta charset="UTF-8">
```

##### DIY helper methods

Now we can create our own helper method that we can call to generate a star rating from a numerical rating.

First we'll make a test for it - throw together a `helpers` folder in the spec
folder, and write a new test in a new file called `reviews_helper_spec.rb`.

```ruby
require 'rails-helper'

describe ReviewsHelper, :type => :helper do
  context "#star_rating" do
    it "does nothing for not a number" do
      expect(helper.star_rating('N/A')).to eq "N/A"
    end
  end
end
```

Time to write that helper method. Rails has auto-generated some placeholder files that we can open up and edit.

`app/helpers/reviews_helper.rb`:

```ruby
module ReviewsHelper
  def star_rating(rating)
    rating
  end
end
```

Our test passes. Refine with a new test:

```ruby
it "returns five black stars for five" do
  expect(helper.star_rating(5)). to eq '★★★★★'
end
```

Which needs an updated method to pass.

```ruby
module ReviewsHelper
  def star_rating(rating)
    return rating unless rating.is_a?(Fixnum)
    "★" * rating
  end
end
```

And it's time for another test:

```ruby
it "returns three black stars and two white stars for three" do
  expect(helper.star_rating(5)). to eq '★★★☆☆'
end
```

So we need to work out the remainder to put on the end as white stars:

```ruby
module ReviewsHelper
  def star_rating(rating)
    return rating unless rating.is_a?(Fixnum)
    remainder = (5 - rating)
    "★" * rating + "☆" * remainder
  end
end
```

And the final test:

```ruby
it "returns three black stars and two white stars for 3.5" do
  expect(helper.star_rating(3.5)). to eq '★★★☆☆'
end
```

However, there's a problem - we'll get "3.5" back as 3.5 is a Float, not a Fixnum. Let's do a bit of [duck typing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duck_typing) to identify the input as valid - does it respond to `round`?

If it does, we can then proceed with the method, which involves rounding the review to make sure we get an integer back (rather than using half stars).

```ruby
module ReviewsHelper
  def star_rating(rating)
    # does the rating respond to `round`? If not, just return the rating
    return rating unless rating.respond_to?(:round)

    # if it does – i.e. if it's a valid number - then the rest of the 
    # method is run
    remainder = (5 - rating)
    "★" * rating.round + "☆" * remainder
  end
end
```

And that should pass those tests. So let's go back to our `index` to get the
feature test to pass.

```erb
...
<%= star_rating(@restaurant.average_rating) %>
...
```

Done. We've made our own helper method – but there are lots of built-in helpers that are very useful. Have a look at :pill: **[Helper methods](pills/helper_methods.md)** to learn more – once you have, see if you can get the reviews to display when they were created relative to now (e.g. '5 hours ago').

#### Adding endorsements

We want users to be able to 'endorse' reviews. We're going to follow the same method as last time: testing, then adding a new resource to routes, then creating a model and a controller.

##### Test first

Let's make a new feature test for adding endorsements.

`spec/features/endorsements_feature_spec.rb`:

```ruby
require 'rails_helper'

describe 'endorsing reviews' do
  before do
    kfc = Restaurant.create(name: 'KFC')
    kfc.reviews.create(rating: 3, content: "It was an abomination")
  end

  it 'a user can endorse a review, which updates the review endorsement count' do
    visit '/restaurants'
    click_link 'Endorse KFC'
    expect(page).to have_content('1 endorsement')
  end
  
end
```

##### Add a new route

Now that we've got our failing test, time to add a new route so we have a way of accessing our endorsements. We need to think about what kind of relationship endorsements and reviews are going to have before we do this - specifically, each review is going to have many endorsements.

Open up `config/routes.rb`. We want to add a nested resource route to reviews, so change this:

```ruby
resources :reviews
```

to this:

```ruby
resources :reviews do
  resources :endorsements
end
```

Run `rake routes` to see what this does. You should see the general structure – that endorsements can now be accessed as a sub-root of each restaurant.

##### Creating endorsements controller

Great. Now let's make an endorsements controller.

```shell
$ rails g controller endorsements
```

Cool. Let's create the first method for the controller:

`app/controllers/endorsements_controller.rb`:

```ruby
class EndorsementsController < ApplicationController

  def create
    @review = Review.find(params[:review_id])
    @review.endorsements.create
    redirect_to restaurants_path
  end

end
```

This is a pretty standard `create` method, but note that at the end it takes the user back to the list of restaurants. As a result, we won't need a `show` method for endorsements (which makes sense, as we probably don't want each individual endorsement to have a whole page devoted to it!).

##### Creating the model

Now run

```shell
$ rails g model endorsement review:belongs_to
```

to generate your model. This command tells Rails that there is a `belongs_to` relationship here – specifically, that each Endorsement will belong to a Review. Running this command generates an appropriate migration for updating your database to reflect this (the migration will make a table for endorsements and an index to link them to reviews).

We don't want our endorsements to have any other properties (unlike restaurants, which have a name and a rating, or reviews, with their comment and rating), so we don't need to specify any other columns.

We also need to update the Review model to reflect this. Let's open it up and add in the `has_many` relationship.

`/app/models/review.rb`:

```ruby
has_many :endorsements
```

Now run 

```shell
$ rake db:migrate
```

to run your database migrations.

##### Showing endorsements on the main page

We now need to update the view to show each review's endorsements. Have a look in `app/views/restaurants/index.html.erb` – you probably have something like:

```erb
<% @restaurant.reviews.each do |review| %>
```

So to that block, you want to call the number of endorsements that each review has. Try using something like this:

```erb
<p><%= review.endorsements.count %> endorsements</p>
```


#### Refactoring using partials

A good rule of thumb is that if you do something twice, you should consider refactoring. (If you're doing it three times, *definitely* refactor.)

We've used the same form for restaurants twice (in create and edit) – exactly the same code. This is unnecessary duplication, and it also makes life more difficult for us. If we updated our restaurants model – say we wanted it to include an address – then we have two forms to update. If we forgot to do that, things would break.

Much better would be to have the same form abstracted out, and *refer* to it twice. Rails makes this easy with [partials](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html#using-partials).

Let's do that now. Create `app/views/restaurants/_form.html.erb` (the prepended '_' indicates this is a partial) and copy and paste the form there.

Now, in both places we refer to the form (`app/views/restaurants/edit.html.erb` and `app/views/restaurants/new.html.erb`), remove the form and type this line instead:

```erb
<%= render "form" %>
```

So much cleaner! Rails knows to refer to the `_form` file we just created and slot it into the layout when the page is rendered.

Commit message:

wrote intro to testing js on webpages

yelpv3.md, after:

| [← Yelp V2](yelpv2.md) | [Yelp home](yelp.md) | Yelp V3 |
|------------------------|----------------------|--------:|

# Yelp

### V3 Walkthrough

In this version of our app, we want to tidy up the UX (user experience). It would be nice if our restaurants showed their average rating. It would also be cool if the page didn't refresh when we clicked on a link but updated dynamically.

Let's see what we can do.

#### Average ratings

We want our restaurants to show their average rating. Test!

##### Feature and unit tests

To `review_feature_spec.rb`, add the below. Here, we've extracted out the leaving review method.

```ruby
def leave_review(thoughts, rating)
  visit '/restaurants'
  click_link 'Review KFC'
  fill_in "Thoughts", with: thoughts
  select rating, from: 'Rating'
  click_button 'Leave Review'
end

it 'displays an average rating for all reviews' do
  leave_review('So so', "3")
  leave_review('Great', "5")
  expect(page).to have_content("Average: 4")
end
```

Now, in our `restaurant_spec.rb`, we add a unit test:

```ruby
...
describe '#average_rating' do
  context 'no reviews' do
    it 'returns "N/A" when there are no reviews' do
      restaurant = Restaurant.create(name: "The Ivy")
      expect(restaruant.average_rating).to eq 'N/A'
    end
  end
end
...
```

##### Making an `average_rating` helper

To make the test pass, we need to update our restaurant model.

`app/models/restaurant.rb`:

```ruby
def average_rating
  'N/A'
end
```

This passes the test so far, but obviously isn't very useful. Now we need a test in the case of having one review, and then one for when it has two or more reviews.

`restaurant_spec.rb`:

```ruby
...
context '1 review' do
  it 'returns that rating' do
    restaurant = Restaurant.create(name: "The Ivy")
    restaurant.reviews.create(rating: 4)
    expect(restaurant.average_rating).to eq 4
  end
end
...
```

Let's update our `average_rating` method.

`app/models/restaurant.rb`:

```ruby
def average_rating
  return 'N/A' if reviews.none?
  reviews.inject(0) {|memo, review| memo + review.rating}
end
```

And now for multiple reviews...

`restaurant_spec.rb`:

```ruby
...
context 'multiple reviews' do
  it 'returns the average' do
    restaurant = Restaurant.create(name: "The Ivy")
    restaurant.reviews.create(rating: 1)
    restaurant.reviews.create(rating: 5)
    expect(restaurant.average_rating).to eq 3
  end
end
...
```

And update our `average_rating` method...

`app/models/restaurant.rb`:

```ruby
def average_rating
  return 'N/A' if reviews.none?
  reviews.inject(0) {|memo, review| memo + review.rating} / reviews.count
end
```

(Note that without using `.to_f` to convert integers to floats, you would find you would only ever have whole number averages.)

**BUT!** Rails has a built-in helper method for this. You could instead just do this:

```ruby
reviews.average(:rating)
```

Easy.

##### Displaying the average rating

Now, add some code to the index page to display this average beside each restaurant.

```erb
...
<h3>Average rating: <%= restaurant.average_rating.to_i %></h3>
...
```

##### Stars make things pretty

But we can do better than that. Yelp uses star ratings which are a nice way of showing a restaurant's rating. We can do something similar just by using the Unicode 'star' characters.

Specifically, we can use these two glyphs:

> BLACK STAR (U+2605)
> ★
  
> WHITE STAR (U+2606)
> ☆

Let's change the feature spec to expect that output.

```ruby
it "displays an average rating for all reviews" do
  leave_review("so so", "3")
  leave_review("Great!", "5")
  expect(page).to have_content("Average rating: ★★★★☆")
end
```

And now let's make sure the page uses the UTF-8 character set, otherwise those Unicode stars won't render properly.

Somewhere in the layout `head` section you'll need to have this `meta` tag:

```erb
<meta charset="UTF-8">
```

##### DIY helper methods

Now we can create our own helper method that we can call to generate a star rating from a numerical rating.

First we'll make a test for it - throw together a `helpers` folder in the spec
folder, and write a new test in a new file called `reviews_helper_spec.rb`.

```ruby
require 'rails-helper'

describe ReviewsHelper, :type => :helper do
  context "#star_rating" do
    it "does nothing for not a number" do
      expect(helper.star_rating('N/A')).to eq "N/A"
    end
  end
end
```

Time to write that helper method. Rails has auto-generated some placeholder files that we can open up and edit.

`app/helpers/reviews_helper.rb`:

```ruby
module ReviewsHelper
  def star_rating(rating)
    rating
  end
end
```

Our test passes. Refine with a new test:

```ruby
it "returns five black stars for five" do
  expect(helper.star_rating(5)). to eq '★★★★★'
end
```

Which needs an updated method to pass.

```ruby
module ReviewsHelper
  def star_rating(rating)
    return rating unless rating.is_a?(Fixnum)
    "★" * rating
  end
end
```

And it's time for another test:

```ruby
it "returns three black stars and two white stars for three" do
  expect(helper.star_rating(5)). to eq '★★★☆☆'
end
```

So we need to work out the remainder to put on the end as white stars:

```ruby
module ReviewsHelper
  def star_rating(rating)
    return rating unless rating.is_a?(Fixnum)
    remainder = (5 - rating)
    "★" * rating + "☆" * remainder
  end
end
```

And the final test:

```ruby
it "returns three black stars and two white stars for 3.5" do
  expect(helper.star_rating(3.5)). to eq '★★★☆☆'
end
```

However, there's a problem - we'll get "3.5" back as 3.5 is a Float, not a Fixnum. Let's do a bit of [duck typing](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duck_typing) to identify the input as valid - does it respond to `round`?

If it does, we can then proceed with the method, which involves rounding the review to make sure we get an integer back (rather than using half stars).

```ruby
module ReviewsHelper
  def star_rating(rating)
    # does the rating respond to `round`? If not, just return the rating
    return rating unless rating.respond_to?(:round)

    # if it does – i.e. if it's a valid number - then the rest of the 
    # method is run
    remainder = (5 - rating)
    "★" * rating.round + "☆" * remainder
  end
end
```

And that should pass those tests. So let's go back to our `index` to get the
feature test to pass.

```erb
...
<%= star_rating(@restaurant.average_rating) %>
...
```

Done. We've made our own helper method – but there are lots of built-in helpers that are very useful. Have a look at :pill: **[Helper methods](pills/helper_methods.md)** to learn more – once you have, see if you can get the reviews to display when they were created relative to now (e.g. '5 hours ago').

#### Adding endorsements

We want users to be able to 'endorse' reviews. We're going to follow the same method as last time: testing, then adding a new resource to routes, then creating a model and a controller.

##### Test first

Let's make a new feature test for adding endorsements.

`spec/features/endorsements_feature_spec.rb`:

```ruby
require 'rails_helper'

describe 'endorsing reviews' do
  before do
    kfc = Restaurant.create(name: 'KFC')
    kfc.reviews.create(rating: 3, content: "It was an abomination")
  end

  it 'a user can endorse a review, which updates the review endorsement count' do
    visit '/restaurants'
    click_link 'Endorse KFC'
    expect(page).to have_content('1 endorsement')
  end
  
end
```

##### Add a new route

Now that we've got our failing test, time to add a new route so we have a way of accessing our endorsements. We need to think about what kind of relationship endorsements and reviews are going to have before we do this - specifically, each review is going to have many endorsements.

Open up `config/routes.rb`. We want to add a nested resource route to reviews, so change this:

```ruby
resources :reviews
```

to this:

```ruby
resources :reviews do
  resources :endorsements
end
```

Run `rake routes` to see what this does. You should see the general structure – that endorsements can now be accessed as a sub-root of each restaurant.

##### Creating endorsements controller

Great. Now let's make an endorsements controller.

```shell
$ rails g controller endorsements
```

Cool. Let's create the first method for the controller:

`app/controllers/endorsements_controller.rb`:

```ruby
class EndorsementsController < ApplicationController

  def create
    @review = Review.find(params[:review_id])
    @review.endorsements.create
    redirect_to restaurants_path
  end

end
```

This is a pretty standard `create` method, but note that at the end it takes the user back to the list of restaurants. As a result, we won't need a `show` method for endorsements (which makes sense, as we probably don't want each individual endorsement to have a whole page devoted to it!).

##### Creating the model

Now run

```shell
$ rails g model endorsement review:belongs_to
```

to generate your model. This command tells Rails that there is a `belongs_to` relationship here – specifically, that each Endorsement will belong to a Review. Running this command generates an appropriate migration for updating your database to reflect this (the migration will make a table for endorsements and an index to link them to reviews).

We don't want our endorsements to have any other properties (unlike restaurants, which have a name and a rating, or reviews, with their comment and rating), so we don't need to specify any other columns.

We also need to update the Review model to reflect this. Let's open it up and add in the `has_many` relationship.

`/app/models/review.rb`:

```ruby
has_many :endorsements
```

Now run 

```shell
$ rake db:migrate
```

to run your database migrations.

##### Showing endorsements on the main page

We now need to update the view to show each review's endorsements. Have a look in `app/views/restaurants/index.html.erb` – you probably have something like:

```erb
<% @restaurant.reviews.each do |review| %>
```

So to that block, you want to call the number of endorsements that each review has. Try using something like this:

```erb
<p><%= review.endorsements.count %> endorsements</p>
```

#### Using AJAX to update endorsements in real-time

This is where it gets fun. We can use AJAX to update the page in real-time without having to refresh. Broadly, it works like this:

1. User clicks 'Endorse' link next to a review
2. Click event invokes some JavaScript in the page, which tells the server that the endorsements count for that review should go up
3. The server responds with a JSON object containing the new endorsements count
4. Client-side JavaScript listens out for that JSON, parses it, and updates the count on the page

It's pretty neat. How do we get started?

##### Testing JS on web pages

We test!

But not so fast. Capybara's default web driver has trouble with JavaScript, so we need something that won't hiccup on this task. In this case, we'll use [Poltergeist](https://github.com/teampoltergeist/poltergeist), which is a headless browser for Capybara based on [PhantomJS](http://phantomjs.org/).



#### Refactoring using partials

A good rule of thumb is that if you do something twice, you should consider refactoring. (If you're doing it three times, *definitely* refactor.)

We've used the same form for restaurants twice (in create and edit) – exactly the same code. This is unnecessary duplication, and it also makes life more difficult for us. If we updated our restaurants model – say we wanted it to include an address – then we have two forms to update. If we forgot to do that, things would break.

Much better would be to have the same form abstracted out, and *refer* to it twice. Rails makes this easy with [partials](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html#using-partials).

Let's do that now. Create `app/views/restaurants/_form.html.erb` (the prepended '_' indicates this is a partial) and copy and paste the form there.

Now, in both places we refer to the form (`app/views/restaurants/edit.html.erb` and `app/views/restaurants/new.html.erb`), remove the form and type this line instead:

```erb
<%= render "form" %>
```

So much cleaner! Rails knows to refer to the `_form` file we just created and slot it into the layout when the page is rendered.
