further_javascript/00_challenge_track.md, before:

# Challenge track

There is some structure to guide you on this track.

You'll work in pairs as usual, swapping pairs each day.

## Structure of the week

### Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday

Build a to do list app as a frontend, single page web app.  You'll be guided through this by the high-level challenges listed below.  However, there will be no walkthroughs.

To get an idea of what you'll be building, here are some [user stories and a mockup](to_do_list_app_user_stories.md) for the to do list app.  (This is just to give you an idea of the app.  You'll work through the challenges below to build the app.)

#### Challenges

1. [Use Mocha to unit test and write a model for a to do](01_to_do_model.md)
2. [Unit test and write a model for a to do list](02_to_do_list_model.md)
3. [Unit test and write some code that outputs a to do list model as HTML](03_output_to_do_list_as_html.md)
4. [Play around to create and serve an `index.html` page for your app](04_index_page.md)
5. [Use Zombie.js to write a feature test that tests that your app displays a title](05_zombie_set_up_and_app_title.md)
6. [Write a feature test that checks that a to do is displayed in the `index.html` page](06_display_to_do_in_page.md)
7. [Play around to add a form for creating a to do to `index.html`](07_create_to_do_form.md)
8. [Play around to intercept a form `submit` event emitted by the form that creates a to do](08_intercept_submit_event.md)
9. [Play around to extract a task from a `submit` event](09_extract_form_data_from_submit_event.md)
10. [Test and write code that takes a task from a `submit` event and creates a to do](10_user_create_to_do.md)
11. [Test and write code that displays to dos as complete or not complete](11_show_to_do_complete_status.md)
12. [Test and write code that implements a to do `Complete` button](12_complete_button.md)
13. [Use Ajax to request some to dos stored on a remote server, then display them](13_request_to_dos_with_ajax.md)
14. [Refactor](14_refactor.md)

### Thursday and Friday

Build a [frontend, single page web app that summarises the news](news_summary_project.md).  No challenges.  No walkthroughs.  You'll be able to build on what you've learnt from making the to do list app.

#### Guidance

Make sure to look at this [guidance](guidance.md) for the news summariser app!  It'll help you point yourself in the right direction when you're figuring out how to implement some of the trickier things. (The guidance shouldn't be necessary for the to do app.  The challenges will guide you with that.)

Commit message:

Add daily group code reviews to further JS challenges track

further_javascript/00_challenge_track.md, after:

# Challenge track

There is some structure to guide you on this track.

You'll work in pairs as usual, swapping pairs each day.

## Structure of the week

### Group code reviews

We'll have group code reviews at 10am on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday.  These will last 30 minutes.  The format will be similar to the Monday weekend challenge code reviews.

### Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday

Build a to do list app as a frontend, single page web app.  You'll be guided through this by the high-level challenges listed below.  However, there will be no walkthroughs.

To get an idea of what you'll be building, here are some [user stories and a mockup](to_do_list_app_user_stories.md) for the to do list app.  (This is just to give you an idea of the app.  You'll work through the challenges below to build the app.)

#### Challenges

1. [Use Mocha to unit test and write a model for a to do](01_to_do_model.md)
2. [Unit test and write a model for a to do list](02_to_do_list_model.md)
3. [Unit test and write some code that outputs a to do list model as HTML](03_output_to_do_list_as_html.md)
4. [Play around to create and serve an `index.html` page for your app](04_index_page.md)
5. [Use Zombie.js to write a feature test that tests that your app displays a title](05_zombie_set_up_and_app_title.md)
6. [Write a feature test that checks that a to do is displayed in the `index.html` page](06_display_to_do_in_page.md)
7. [Play around to add a form for creating a to do to `index.html`](07_create_to_do_form.md)
8. [Play around to intercept a form `submit` event emitted by the form that creates a to do](08_intercept_submit_event.md)
9. [Play around to extract a task from a `submit` event](09_extract_form_data_from_submit_event.md)
10. [Test and write code that takes a task from a `submit` event and creates a to do](10_user_create_to_do.md)
11. [Test and write code that displays to dos as complete or not complete](11_show_to_do_complete_status.md)
12. [Test and write code that implements a to do `Complete` button](12_complete_button.md)
13. [Use Ajax to request some to dos stored on a remote server, then display them](13_request_to_dos_with_ajax.md)
14. [Refactor](14_refactor.md)

### Thursday and Friday

Build a [frontend, single page web app that summarises the news](news_summary_project.md).  No challenges.  No walkthroughs.  You'll be able to build on what you've learnt from making the to do list app.

#### Guidance

Make sure to look at this [guidance](guidance.md) for the news summariser app!  It'll help you point yourself in the right direction when you're figuring out how to implement some of the trickier things. (The guidance shouldn't be necessary for the to do app.  The challenges will guide you with that.)
