further_javascript/02_angular_modules.md, before:

# Angular Modules

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

You now have a static website with some basic data binding functionality going on thanks to some Angular magic. Now we need to break the magic down so we can build a simple 'To Do' List.

### Challenge Setup

Over the next few challenges, we're going to try and build a basic 'To Do' list. This is the standard project frontend developers build when they are learning a new frontend framework. Later, you'll build the 'To Do' list in a Test-Driven style. There are many Frontend frameworks, and having one unified project helps to understand the difference between them. If you are interested in Frontend development, you should build lots of To Do lists.

### Learning Objectives covered
- Understand Angular's modular structure
- Set up the root module of an Angular application.

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] Set up a root module, `toDoApp`, in a new file `app.js`.
- [ ] Include this script in your `index.html`.
- [ ] Use `ng-app` (in the `<html>` tag) to link your root module to your HTML.

### Resources

- [Angular Docs: Module](https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/module)

### [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/02_angular_modules.md)

Commit message:

update Angular modules challenge intro

further_javascript/02_angular_modules.md, after:

# Angular Modules

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

You now have a static website with some basic data binding functionality going on thanks to some Angular magic. Now we need to break the magic down so we can build a simple 'To Do' List.

In this challenge, you will set up the *root module* of an Angular application.

### Challenge Setup

Over the next few challenges, we're going to try and build a basic 'To Do' list. This is the standard project frontend developers build when they are learning a new frontend framework. Later, you'll build the 'To Do' list in a Test-Driven style. There are many Frontend frameworks, and having one unified project helps to understand the difference between them. If you are interested in Frontend development, you should build lots of To Do lists.

### Learning Objectives covered
- Understand Angular's modular structure
- Set up the root module of an Angular application.

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] Set up a root module, `toDoApp`, in a new file `app.js`.
- [ ] Include this script in your `index.html`.
- [ ] Use `ng-app` (in the `<html>` tag) to link your root module to your HTML.

### Resources

- [Angular Docs: Module](https://docs.angularjs.org/guide/module)

### [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/02_angular_modules.md)
