further_javascript/03_output_to_do_list_as_html.md, before:

# Unit test and write some code that outputs a to do list model as HTML

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_track.md)

In order to display a list of to dos to the user, they need to be converted to HTML.  In this challenge, you'll write code that outputs a to do list model as an unordered HTML list.

You could create the HTML through string concatenation, or use the Mustache templating library.

### Learning objectives covered

- Generate HTML for an unordered list.
- Implement a simple dynamic template.

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] Write tests that check you take a to do list model and return a string of HTML that structures the to dos as an unordered HTML list.  For example, `<ul><li><div>Eat breakfast</div></li></ul>`.
- [ ] Write code to pass the tests.  (Interesting question: where does this code belong? In ToDoList? In its own module?)

### Resources

- [Array join](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/join)
- [HTML lists on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/HTML/Element/ul)
- [Mustache templates](https://github.com/janl/mustache.js/)

Commit message:

Clarify that further JS challenge 3 is not about displaying HTML in a browser

further_javascript/03_output_to_do_list_as_html.md, after:

# Unit test and write some code that outputs a to do list model as HTML

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_track.md)

In order to display a list of to dos to the user, they need to be converted to HTML.  In this challenge, you'll write code that outputs a to do list model as an unordered HTML list.

You could create the HTML through string concatenation, or use the Mustache templating library.

### Learning objectives covered

- Generate HTML for an unordered list.
- Implement a simple dynamic template.

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] Write tests that check you take a to do list model and return a string of HTML that structures the to dos as an unordered HTML list.  For example, `<ul><li><div>Eat breakfast</div></li></ul>`.
- [ ] Write code to pass the tests.  (Interesting question: where does this code belong? In ToDoList? In its own module?)

> NB: This challenge doesn't require you to displaying the HTML in a browser, or put the HTML into an HTML file.  If the code you write to pass the tests returns the right string of HTML, the challenge is complete!

### Resources

- [Array join](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/join)
- [HTML lists on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en/docs/Web/HTML/Element/ul)
- [Mustache templates](https://github.com/janl/mustache.js/)
