further_javascript/06_display_to_do_in_page.md, before:

# Write a feature test that checks that a to do is displayed in the `index.html` page

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_track.md)

### Learning objectives covered

- Insert content into the DOM.

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] Write a test that checks that your `index.html` page contains some to dos.  The test will fail.
- [ ] Create an `index.js` file and load it in your `index.html` file.
- [ ] Instantiate your to do list model and populate it with a few to dos.
- [ ] Generate HTML for your to dos and insert it into the DOM.

### Resources

- [Document Object Model (DOM) on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction)
- [Functional (feature) testing For node using Mocha and Zombie.js](http://www.redotheweb.com/2013/01/15/functional-testing-for-nodejs-using-mocha-and-zombie-js.html)
- [Zombie.js](http://zombie.js.org/)
- [innerHTML on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/innerHTML)

Commit message:

Add more explanation to further JS challenge 6

further_javascript/06_display_to_do_in_page.md, after:

# Write a feature test that checks that a to do is displayed in the `index.html` page

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_track.md)

In this challenge, you'll write a feature test that checks that a to do is displayed in your `index.html` page.  To do this, you'll tie together your model and template code, and write code to modify the DOM.

### Learning objectives covered

- Insert content into the DOM.

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] Write a test that checks that your `index.html` page contains some to dos.  The test will fail.
- [ ] Create an `index.js` file and load it in your `index.html` file.
- [ ] Instantiate your to do list model and populate it with a few to dos.
- [ ] Generate HTML for your to dos and insert it into the DOM.

### Resources

- [Document Object Model (DOM) on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction)
- [Functional (feature) testing For node using Mocha and Zombie.js](http://www.redotheweb.com/2013/01/15/functional-testing-for-nodejs-using-mocha-and-zombie-js.html)
- [Zombie.js](http://zombie.js.org/)
- [innerHTML on MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/innerHTML)
