further_javascript/project_track.md, before:

# Project track

For this track, there's almost no structure. You will build your own JavaScript frontend, single page app framework.

You'll work in unchanging groups of about four for the whole week.

## Structure of the week

### Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday

Take [user stories for a notes app](notes_app_user_stories.md).  Use them to build a frontend, single page web app.

You may not use any existing web frameworks, libraries or even test frameworks (e.g. Angular, React, Jasmine, jQuery).

No challenges.  No walkthroughs.

#### Guidance

Make sure to look at this [guidance](frontend_single_page_app_guidance.md)! It'll help you point yourself in the right direction when you're figuring out how to implement some of the trickier things.

#### Web framework

Extract your own frontend, single page app framework from your app.  See here for more [guidance](frontend_single_page_app_framework_guidance.md).

### Thursday and Friday

(If it's getting late into the week and you haven't started the news summarising app, don't rush through it.  Refactor your notes app and your frontend, single page app framework.)

Use your extracted framework to build an [app that summarises the news](news_summary_project.md).

No challenges.  No walkthroughs.

#### Guidance

Make sure to look at this [guidance](frontend_single_page_app_guidance.md)! It'll help you point yourself in the right direction when you're figuring out how to implement some of the trickier things.

Commit message:

Write test library (not web framework) in week 7

further_javascript/project_track.md, after:

# Project track

For this track, there's almost no structure. You will build your own test library.

You'll work in unchanging groups of about four for the whole week.

## Structure of the week

### Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, Thursday

Take [user stories for a notes app](notes_app_user_stories.md).  Use them to build a frontend, single page web app.

You may not use any existing web frameworks, libraries or even a test library (e.g. Angular, React, Jasmine, jQuery).

No challenges.  No walkthroughs.

#### Guidance

Make sure to look at this [guidance](frontend_single_page_app_guidance.md)! It'll help you point yourself in the right direction when you're figuring out how to implement some of the trickier things.

#### Test library

Extract your own test library from your app.  See here for more [guidance](../pills/writing_tests_without_a_testing_library.md).

### Thursday and Friday

Build an [app that summarises the news](news_summary_project.md).

You may not use any existing web frameworks or libraries (e.g. Angular, React, Jasmine, jQuery).  (But you can use your new testing library!)

No challenges.  No walkthroughs.

(If it's getting late into the week and you haven't started the news summarising app, don't rush through it.  Refactor your notes app and your test library.)

#### Guidance

Make sure to look at this [guidance](frontend_single_page_app_guidance.md)! It'll help you point yourself in the right direction when you're figuring out how to implement some of the trickier things.
