how-to/code-review.md, before:

## Code Review

The goal of code review is to provide an opportunity to receive feedback and suggestions for improvement on your code.  It also helps us to develop the important skill of reading and understanding other people's code.

### Everyone
--------

* Accept that many programming decisions are opinions. Discuss tradeoffs, which
  you prefer, and reach a resolution quickly.
* Ask good questions; don't make demands. ("What do you think about naming this
  `:user_id`?")
* Good questions avoid judgment and avoid assumptions about the author's
  perspective.
* Ask for clarification. ("I didn't understand. Can you clarify?")
* Avoid selective ownership of code. ("mine", "not mine", "yours")
* Avoid using terms that could be seen as referring to personal traits. ("dumb",
  "stupid"). Assume everyone is intelligent and well-meaning.
* Be explicit. Remember people don't always understand your intentions online.
* Be humble. ("I'm not sure - let's look it up.")
* Don't use hyperbole. ("always", "never", "endlessly", "nothing")
* Don't use sarcasm.

Having Your Code Reviewed
-------------------------

* A common axiom is "Don't take it personally. **The review is of the code, not you.**"
* Be grateful for the reviewer's suggestions. ("Good call. I'll make that
  change.")
* Keeping the previous point in mind: assume the best intention from the reviewer's comments.
* Explain why the code exists. ("It's like that because of these reasons. Would
  it be more clear if I rename this class/file/method/variable?")
* Seek to understand the reviewer's perspective.
* Try to respond to every comment.

Reviewing Code
--------------

Understand why the change is necessary (fixes a bug, improves the user
experience, refactors the existing code). Then:

* Communicate which ideas you feel strongly about and those you don't.
* Identify ways to simplify the code while still solving the problem.
* Offer alternative implementations, but assume the author already considered
  them. ("What do you think about using a custom validator here?")
* Seek to understand the author's perspective.


![Tracking pixel](https://githubanalytics.herokuapp.com/course/how-to/code-review.md)

Commit message:

Added link to code review 'how to'

how-to/code-review.md, after:

## Code Review

The goal of code review is to provide an opportunity to receive feedback and suggestions for improvement on your code.  It also helps us to develop the important skill of reading and understanding other people's code.

### Everyone
--------

* Accept that many programming decisions are opinions. Discuss tradeoffs, which
  you prefer, and reach a resolution quickly.
* Ask good questions; don't make demands. ("What do you think about naming this
  `:user_id`?")
* Good questions avoid judgment and avoid assumptions about the author's
  perspective.
* Ask for clarification. ("I didn't understand. Can you clarify?")
* Avoid selective ownership of code. ("mine", "not mine", "yours")
* Avoid using terms that could be seen as referring to personal traits. ("dumb",
  "stupid"). Assume everyone is intelligent and well-meaning.
* Be explicit. Remember people don't always understand your intentions online.
* Be humble. ("I'm not sure - let's look it up.")
* Don't use hyperbole. ("always", "never", "endlessly", "nothing")
* Don't use sarcasm.

Having Your Code Reviewed
-------------------------

* A common axiom is "Don't take it personally. **The review is of the code, not you.**"
* Be grateful for the reviewer's suggestions. ("Good call. I'll make that
  change.")
* Keeping the previous point in mind: assume the best intention from the reviewer's comments.
* Explain why the code exists. ("It's like that because of these reasons. Would
  it be more clear if I rename this class/file/method/variable?")
* Seek to understand the reviewer's perspective.
* Try to respond to every comment.

Reviewing Code
--------------

Understand why the change is necessary (fixes a bug, improves the user
experience, refactors the existing code). Then:

* Communicate which ideas you feel strongly about and those you don't.
* Identify ways to simplify the code while still solving the problem.
* Offer alternative implementations, but assume the author already considered
  them. ("What do you think about using a custom validator here?")
* Seek to understand the author's perspective.

Sample Rubrics
--------------
For inspiration, here are some example review rubrics for some of the weekend challenges:

[Airport Challenge](https://github.com/makersacademy/airport_challenge/blob/master/docs/review.md)
[Takeaway Challenge](https://github.com/makersacademy/takeaway-challenge/blob/master/docs/review.md)
[Rps Challenge](https://github.com/makersacademy/rps-challenge/blob/master/docs/review.md)
[Chitter Challenge](https://github.com/makersacademy/chitter-challenge/blob/master/docs/review.md)
[Bowling Challenge](https://github.com/makersacademy/bowling-challenge/blob/master/docs/review.md)

![Tracking pixel](https://githubanalytics.herokuapp.com/course/how-to/code-review.md)
