bookmark_manager/01_creating_user_stories.md, before:

## Creating User stories

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

The website will have the following specification:

* It shows a list of links from the database
* New links can be added
* Links can be tagged
* Links can be filtered by a tag

First up we will create user stories for each of these in the Stakeholder/Motivation/Action format, e.g.

```
As a Makers Student
So that I can be on time for standups
I want to purchase a new alarm clock
```

## Learning Objectives covered

* Use the specification to generate user stories in the appropriate format

## To complete this challenge, you will need to

- [ ] Discuss each point of the specification with your pair partner
- [ ] Write User stories/features for showing a list of links
- [ ] Write User stories/features for adding new links
- [ ] Write User stories/features for adding tags to links
- [ ] Write User stories/features for filtering links by a tag
- [ ] Draw a rough domain model
- [ ] Put all these user stories in your project README

## Resources

* [:pill: User Stories Pill](../pills/user_stories.md)
* [UK Government advice on creating user stories](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/agile/writing-user-stories.html)
* [Agile Modeling tips on User stories](http://www.agilemodeling.com/artifacts/userStory.htm)

## [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/01.md)

Commit message:

Adjust first and second steps
* Build a web project
* Build out the first feature without a database
* Add some good process guidance rather than TODO stuff

bookmark_manager/01_creating_user_stories.md, after:

## Creating User stories

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

The website will have the following **specification**:

* Show a list of links from the database
* Add new links
* Tag links into categories
* Filter links by tag

> A specification is a list of **requirements**.

We'll be using a BDD cycle (i.e. **outside-in testing**: Capybara first). 

To guide us, create some User Stories and sketch a high-level domain model.

> There's no need to create all user stories at once. In fact, doing so can trap us in having to build an app a particular way. Let's just create user stories for the first feature. Once we've built it, we can decide the next one. Same with domain models: don't draw the whole thing. Just jot down enough info to get started. Aim to get coding ASAP.

## Learning Objectives covered

* Generate User Stories from Requirements

## To complete this challenge, you will need to

- [ ] Write a user stories for showing a list of links
- [ ] Draw a rough domain model for the above
- [ ] Put all these user stories and a snap of your domain model in your project README

## Resources

* [:pill: User Stories Pill](../pills/user_stories.md)
* [UK Government advice on creating user stories](https://www.gov.uk/service-manual/agile/writing-user-stories.html)
* [Agile Modeling tips on User stories](http://www.agilemodeling.com/artifacts/userStory.htm)

## [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/01.md)
