bookmark_manager/03_setting_up_a_database.md, before:

## Setting up a database

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

We now have a web application with some **hard-coded** data (an array of Links). 

In this challenge, you will prepare to move the hard-coded data into a **database**. To do this, you will set up **PostgreSQL**, a database management system, and a new database.

### Challenge Setup

Let's return to the specification:

* Show a list of links :white_check_mark:
* Add new links
* Tag links into categories
* Filter links by tag

A user story for the next requirement, 'add new links', could look like this:

```
As a time-pressed user
So that I can save a website
I would like to add the site's address and title to bookmark manager
```

This user story requires that we persist links across interactions. At the moment, we _are_ persisting links as hard-coded strings in our code. This hard coding makes it tough to add new links while the program's running. 

We could solve the persistence problem using a global variable (or the other horrorshow we constructed towards the end of Battle), or even by saving link data out to a file. But it's far more normal to use a **database**. 

> A database is simply organised part of a filesystem. It's optimised for storing and retrieving data.

A common database system for modern web development is called [PostgreSQL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PostgreSQL).

> PostgreSQL is actually a server that runs a database. Therefore, it can be started, stopped, and interacted with through an interface, `psql`.

In this challenge, you will **install the PostgreSQL database system**, and interact with it to create a database.

## Learning Objectives covered

* Install Postgres.
* Create a database.

## To complete this challenge, you will need to

- [ ] Install the `postgresql` command-line package via Homebrew (use the command `brew`).
- [ ] Start postgres and set it to run automatically when your computer starts. (See the instructions in the output that brew shows when it's installing postgres.)
- [ ] Check your installation by running `psql` in the terminal. Use the resources below to understand any errors that you see.
- [ ] Create a PostgreSQL database with the same name as your computer username, e.g. `timmy507`.

## Resources

* [Homebrew Package Manager](http://brew.sh/)
* [PostgreSQL Command Line Cheat Sheet](http://blog.jasonmeridth.com/posts/postgresql-command-line-cheat-sheet/)

## [Walkthrough - Mac OS](walkthroughs/03_mac.md)
## [Walkthrough - Linux](walkthroughs/03_linux.md)
## [Walkthrough - Nitrous](walkthroughs/03_nitrous.md)

Commit message:

(WIP) Add steps to set up a testing environment and scaffold out the 'add a new link' feature
* Explicitly make a challenge that requires some scripting and understanding of environments/setting up new databases
* Manually create a 'database cleaner' that we'll migrate to a gem later on
* Update some language used throughout, and some references

bookmark_manager/03_setting_up_a_database.md, after:

## Setting up a database

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

We now have a web application with some **hard-coded** data (an array of Links). 

In the next few challenges, we are going to: 

- set up a **database**, 
- play with it a bit to understand its structure, and 
- connect it to our Sinatra application.

We'll return to building the web application in [this challenge](./08_creating_links.md), a few challenges down the line.

In this challenge, you will prepare to move the hard-coded data into a **database**. To do this, you will set up **PostgreSQL**, a database management system, and a new database.

### Challenge Setup

Let's return to the specification:

* Show a list of links :white_check_mark:
* Add new links
* Tag links into categories
* Filter links by tag

A user story for the next requirement, 'add new links', could look like this:

```
As a time-pressed user
So that I can save a website
I would like to add the site's address and title to bookmark manager
```

This user story requires that we persist links across interactions. At the moment, we _are_ persisting links as hard-coded strings in our code. This hard coding makes it tough to add new links while the program's running. 

We could solve the persistence problem using a global variable (or the other horrorshow we constructed towards the end of Battle), or even by saving link data out to a file. But it's far more normal to use a **database**. 

> A database is simply organised part of a filesystem. It's optimised for storing and retrieving data.

A common database system for modern web development is called [PostgreSQL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PostgreSQL).

> PostgreSQL is actually a server that runs a database. Therefore, it can be started, stopped, and interacted with through an interface, `psql`.

In this challenge, you will **install the PostgreSQL database system**, and interact with it to create a database.

## Learning Objectives covered

* Install Postgres.
* Create a database.

## To complete this challenge, you will need to

- [ ] Install the `postgresql` command-line package via Homebrew (use the command `brew`).
- [ ] Start postgres and set it to run automatically when your computer starts. (See the instructions in the output that brew shows when it's installing postgres.)
- [ ] Check your installation by running `psql` in the terminal. Use the resources below to understand any errors that you see.
- [ ] Create a PostgreSQL database with the same name as your computer username, e.g. `timmy507`.

## Resources

* [Homebrew Package Manager](http://brew.sh/)
* [PostgreSQL Command Line Cheat Sheet](http://blog.jasonmeridth.com/posts/postgresql-command-line-cheat-sheet/)

## [Walkthrough - Mac OS](walkthroughs/03_mac.md)
## [Walkthrough - Linux](walkthroughs/03_linux.md)
## [Walkthrough - Nitrous](walkthroughs/03_nitrous.md)
