bookmark_manager/05_manipulating_table_data.md, before:

## Manipulating Table Data

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

We have created a Postgres database, and added one table to it. At the moment, there's no data in the table. However, we have added a data structure, ready to be filled with custom data.

In this challenge, you will use SQL to create, update, delete and **query** data in the table you created, inside your Postgres database.

## Learning Objectives covered

* Use SQL query terms like `SELECT`, `FROM`, `WHERE`, `*`, etc.

## To complete this challenge, you will need to

- [ ] List the existing rows in the students table (there aren't any)
- [ ] Add two entries to the students table
- [ ] List the two entries
- [ ] Delete one of them
- [ ] Update the name of the remaining one

## Resources

* [PostgreSQL Command Line Cheat Sheet](http://blog.jasonmeridth.com/posts/postgresql-command-line-cheat-sheet/)
* [SQL in One Page](http://www.cheat-sheets.org/sites/sql.su/)
* [Relational Database: Terminology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relational_database#Terminology)

## [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/05.md)

Commit message:

Update stage 5
* Use Links instead of the students table
* Break up the walkthrough so it's clearer
* Give a slightly more interesting SQL challenge

bookmark_manager/05_manipulating_table_data.md, after:

## Manipulating Table Data

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

We have created a PostgreSQL database, and added a `links` table. At the moment, there's no data in the table.

In this challenge, you will use SQL to create, update, delete and **query** data in the table you created, inside your PostgreSQL database.

## Learning Objectives covered

* Use SQL query terms like `SELECT`, `FROM`, `WHERE`, `*`, etc.
* Use SQL CRUD terms like `INSERT`, `DELETE`, and `UPDATE`.

## To complete this challenge, you will need to

- [ ] List any existing rows in the links table.
- [ ] Create four link entries in the `links` table, with the following URLs: `http://www.makersacademy.com`, `http://www.askjeeves.com`, `http://www.twitter.com`, and `http://www.facebook.com`, using an `INSERT` statement.
- [ ] List the four entries using a `SELECT` statement.
- [ ] Delete the link with a URL of `http://www.twitter.com` using a `DELETE` statement.
- [ ] Update the `http://www.askjeeves.com` link to `http://www.google.com` using an `UPDATE` statement.

## Resources

* [PostgreSQL Command Line Cheat Sheet](http://blog.jasonmeridth.com/posts/postgresql-command-line-cheat-sheet/)
* [SQL in One Page](http://www.cheat-sheets.org/sites/sql.su/)
* [Relational Database: Terminology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relational_database#Terminology)

## [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/05.md)
