bookmark_manager/09_creating_links.md, before:

## Creating links

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

We've built a Sinatra application that can read and display links from the database. We've interacted with the database via `psql`, `pg`, and now a GUI, TablePlus.

Over the past few challenges, we:

- Set up a database.
- Played with it a bit.
- Connected it with Sinatra.

Now that we have a reliable persistent database, let's build the next feature in the specification:

* Show a list of links :white_check_mark:
* Add new links :construction:
* Tag links into categories
* Filter links by tag

In this challenge, you will build the entire feature of 'adding links to the database' from browser to database: across the whole stack.

> This is your first 'full-stack' feature!

## Learning Objectives covered

* Build a complete full-stack feature.

## To complete this challenge, you will need to

- [ ] Decompose the requirement 'add new links' into a User Story.
- [ ] Write a feature test for a user submitting a new link via a form. _Think carefully about how to set up the Sinatra routes for this!_
- [ ] Solve the feature test by:
  - [ ] Doing the simplest thing
  - [ ] Refactoring link creation into the `Link` model
  - [ ] Ensuring that your feature test passes

> To pass this feature test time-after-time, you might need to think about adding some 'test setup' instructions to your `spec_helper.rb` that ensures you have a 'clean' database to work with whenever you run your tests.

## Resources

* [PostgreSQL `DROP TABLE IF EXISTS` command](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.2/static/sql-droptable.html)
* [PostgreSQL `TRUNCATE` command](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/8.2/static/sql-truncate.html)

## [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/08.md)

Commit message:

Add task to use Rake
* Rake is used first to migrate an existing script to a task, then to add a task to setup databases
* Hopefully this will clear up Rake a bit

bookmark_manager/09_creating_links.md, after:

## Creating links

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

We've built a Sinatra application that can read and display links from the database. We've interacted with the database via `psql`, `pg`, and now a GUI, TablePlus.

Over the past few challenges, we:

- Set up a database.
- Played with it a bit.
- Connected it with Sinatra.

Now that we have a reliable persistent database, let's build the next feature in the specification:

* Show a list of links :white_check_mark:
* Add new links :construction:
* Tag links into categories
* Filter links by tag

In this challenge, you will build the entire feature of 'adding links to the database' from browser to database: across the whole stack.

> This is your first 'full-stack' feature!

## Learning Objectives covered

* Build a complete full-stack feature.

## To complete this challenge, you will need to

- [ ] Decompose the requirement 'add new links' into a User Story.
- [ ] Write a feature test for a user submitting a new link via a form. _Think carefully about how to set up the Sinatra routes for this!_
- [ ] Solve the feature test by:
  - [ ] Doing the simplest thing
  - [ ] Refactoring link creation into the `Link` model
  - [ ] Ensuring that your feature test passes
- [ ] Test that your new feature also works in the development environment

## [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/09.md)
