bookmark_manager/10_creating_a_modular_sinatra_app.md, before:

## Creating a modular Sinatra app.

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

You've built a feature test that checks that a user can view any created `Link`s in a list, and you've built those `Link`s. At the moment, it's failing: because we don't have an application that serves the `/links` route.

In this challenge you will use Sinatra to set up a web application and tell Capybara which application it is testing.

## Learning Objectives covered

* Laying out Sinatra in the modular style

## To complete this challenge, you will need to

- [ ] Create a file `/app/app.rb`
- [ ] Lay out Sinatra in the modular style within app.rb
- [ ] Tell Capybara which app you are testing in the `spec_helper`
- [ ] Require your link model in `app.rb`
- [ ] Ensure you require your server file in your `spec_helper`
- [ ] Create a `/links` path and associated `erb` view
- [ ] Ensure that the feature test passes

## Resources

* [Sinatra Documentation - Modular Style](http://www.sinatrarb.com/intro.html#Sinatra::Base%20-%20Middleware,%20Libraries,%20and%20Modular%20Apps)
* [Sinatra Best Practices](http://blog.carbonfive.com/2013/06/24/sinatra-best-practices-part-one/)

## [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/10.md)

Commit message:

Clarify expectation that links will be retrieved from the db

bookmark_manager/10_creating_a_modular_sinatra_app.md, after:

## Creating a modular Sinatra app.

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

You've built a feature test that checks that a user can view any created `Link`s in a list, and you've built those `Link`s. At the moment, it's failing: because we don't have an application that serves the `/links` route.

In this challenge you will use Sinatra to set up a web application and tell Capybara which application it is testing.

## Learning Objectives covered

* Laying out Sinatra in the modular style

## To complete this challenge, you will need to

- [ ] Create a file `/app/app.rb`
- [ ] Lay out Sinatra in the modular style within app.rb
- [ ] Tell Capybara which app you are testing in the `spec_helper`
- [ ] Require your link model in `app.rb`
- [ ] Ensure you require your server file in your `spec_helper`
- [ ] Create a `/links` path
- [ ] In your `/links` controller action, use DataMapper to get all the Link objects in the database.
- [ ] Create a links `erb` view that displays the links.
- [ ] Ensure that the feature test passes

## Resources

* [Sinatra Documentation - Modular Style](http://www.sinatrarb.com/intro.html#Sinatra::Base%20-%20Middleware,%20Libraries,%20and%20Modular%20Apps)
* [Sinatra Best Practices](http://blog.carbonfive.com/2013/06/24/sinatra-best-practices-part-one/)

## [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/10.md)
