week12/battleships_tech_test.md, before:

# Battleships tech test

Today, you'll practice doing a tech test.

For most tech tests, you'll essentially have unlimited time.  For this one, there will be a light time pressure.  See what you can get done in four hours.

You'll get to practice your OO design and TDD skills.

You'll work alone, and you'll also review your own code so you can practice reflecting on and improving your own work.

## Schedule

* 09.30 - 14.00.  Work **solo** to implement the Battleship user stories in Ruby.  Have breaks whenever you like.

* 14.00 - 14.20.  Review your own code.  Look for places it could be refactored.

* 14.20 - 15.00.  Refactor your code.

* 15.00 - 16.00.  We'll all come together and review our code on the projector.

## User stories

```
As a player
So that I can prepare for the game
I would like to place a ship in a board location

As a player
So that I can play a more interesting game
I would like to have a range of ship sizes to choose from

As a player
So that I can create a layout of ships to outwit my opponent
I would like to be able to choose the directions my ships face in

As a player
So that I can have a coherent game
I would like ships to be constrained to be on the board

As a player
So that I can have a coherent game
I would like ships to be constrained not to overlap

As a player
So that I can win the game
I would like to be able to fire at my opponent's board

As a player
So that I can refine my strategy
I would like to know when I have sunk an opponent's ship

As a player
So that I know when to finish playing
I would like to know when I have won or lost

As a player
So that I can consider my next shot
I would like to be able to see my hits and misses so far

As a player
So that I can play against a human opponent
I would like to play a two-player game
```

Commit message:

Add explicit story about command line interface to battleships tech test

week12/battleships_tech_test.md, after:

# Battleships tech test

Today, you'll practice doing a tech test.

For most tech tests, you'll essentially have unlimited time.  For this one, there will be a light time pressure.  See what you can get done in four hours.

You'll get to practice your OO design and TDD skills.

You'll work alone, and you'll also review your own code so you can practice reflecting on and improving your own work.

## Schedule

* 09.30 - 14.00.  Work **solo** to implement the Battleship user stories in Ruby.  Have breaks whenever you like.

* 14.00 - 14.20.  Review your own code.  Look for places it could be refactored.

* 14.20 - 15.00.  Refactor your code.

* 15.00 - 16.00.  We'll all come together and review our code on the projector.

## User stories

```
As a player
So that I can prepare for the game
I would like to place a ship in a board location

As a player
So that I can play a more interesting game
I would like to have a range of ship sizes to choose from

As a player
So the game is more fun to play
I would like a nice command line interface that lets me enter ship positions and shots using commands (rather than using IRB to interact with objects)

As a player
So that I can create a layout of ships to outwit my opponent
I would like to be able to choose the directions my ships face in

As a player
So that I can have a coherent game
I would like ships to be constrained to be on the board

As a player
So that I can have a coherent game
I would like ships to be constrained not to overlap

As a player
So that I can win the game
I would like to be able to fire at my opponent's board

As a player
So that I can refine my strategy
I would like to know when I have sunk an opponent's ship

As a player
So that I know when to finish playing
I would like to know when I have won or lost

As a player
So that I can consider my next shot
I would like to be able to see my hits and misses so far

As a player
So that I can play against a human opponent
I would like to play a two-player game
```
