thermostat/4_airport_challenge_js.md, before:

# Airport Challenge in JavaScript

[Back to the Challenge Map](0_challenge_map.md)

Awesome! Now you are able to test one object in JavaScript - let's try testing a few objects together, and keep practicing basic JavaScript syntax.

In this challenge, you will translate the Airport Challenge into JavaScript.

### Challenge setup

The specification for the Airport challenge can be found [here](https://github.com/makersacademy/airport_challenge).

Take your Ruby code and attempt to rewrite it in JavaScript - don't dwell too long on this challenge if you already feel comfortable with Jasmine and JavaScript syntax.

### Learning Objectives covered
* Understand and use Jasmine spies

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:
- [ ] Translate your Airport challenge into JavaScript
- [ ] Understand how to use `function()` to control the scope of a variable
- [ ] Use Jasmine spies

### Resources
- [Jasmine documentation](http://jasmine.github.io/2.3/introduction.html)

### [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/4.md)

Commit message:

Add link to some examples of scope

thermostat/4_airport_challenge_js.md, after:

# Airport Challenge in JavaScript

[Back to the Challenge Map](0_challenge_map.md)

Awesome! Now you are able to test one object in JavaScript - let's try testing a few objects together, and keep practicing basic JavaScript syntax.

In this challenge, you will translate the Airport Challenge into JavaScript.

### Challenge setup

The specification for the Airport challenge can be found [here](https://github.com/makersacademy/airport_challenge).

Take your Ruby code and attempt to rewrite it in JavaScript - don't dwell too long on this challenge if you already feel comfortable with Jasmine and JavaScript syntax.

### Learning Objectives covered
* Understand and use Jasmine spies

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:
- [ ] Translate your Airport challenge into JavaScript
- [ ] Understand how to use `function()` to control the scope of a variable
- [ ] Use Jasmine spies

### Resources
- [Jasmine documentation](http://jasmine.github.io/2.3/introduction.html)
- [Some examples of the scope of variables in JavaScript](http://stackoverflow.com/a/500459/1109968)

### [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/4.md)
