thermostat/6_interface.md, before:

# Thermostat: interface

[Back to the Challenge Map](0_challenge_map.md)

You now have some well tested business logic, representing simple model of a thermostat. However, at the moment, the only way you can interact with the code is either through the console or tests. It's time to build a user interface.

In this challenge, you will build the skeleton of a UI, so that you can then start interacting with your underlying logic.

### Learning Objectives covered

- Using HTML/CSS to create a user interface on the web.

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] Decide what HTML elements you will need to serve as controls on the thermostat.  Decide what HTML elements you will need to display the thermostat data.
- [ ] Build a static HTML page with these elements, labelling them with appropriate classes and/or IDs.
- [ ] Add a `script` tag to load your thermostat JavaScript file into the page.
- [ ] Open the developer console and check you can instantiate a thermostat object and call methods on it.

### Resources

### [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/6.md)

Commit message:

Make it clear that challenge doesn't require hooking up interface to model

thermostat/6_interface.md, after:

# Thermostat: interface

[Back to the Challenge Map](0_challenge_map.md)

You now have some well tested business logic, representing simple model of a thermostat. However, at the moment, the only way you can interact with the code is either through the console or tests. It's time to build a user interface.

In this challenge, you will build the skeleton of a UI, so that you can then start interacting with your underlying logic.

### Learning Objectives covered

- Using HTML/CSS to create a user interface on the web.

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] Decide what HTML elements you will need to serve as controls on the thermostat.  Decide what HTML elements you will need to display the thermostat data.
- [ ] Build a static HTML page with these elements, labelling them with appropriate classes and/or IDs.
- [ ] You don't need to hook up your thermostat model to the user interface.  That comes in the next challenge!
- [ ] Add a `script` tag to load your thermostat JavaScript file into the page.
- [ ] Open the developer console and check you can instantiate a thermostat object and call methods on it.

### Resources

### [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/6.md)
