thermostat/7_jquery.md, before:

# Thermostat: jQuery

[Back to the Challenge Map](0_challenge_map.md)

Now, you are at the point which excites a lot of people, and is also JavaScript's unique superpower - dynamically changing content on a webpage. Using JavaScript, we can grab any element on the page, change its HTML and CSS, delete it, move it elsewhere, draw on the page, and many other funtastic things. Seeing as so far all user interaction you've done so far has been through the medium of forms and links, this will hopefully excite you.

In this challenge, you will manipuate the Document Object Model (DOM) using JavaScript and jQuery.

### Challenge setup

The first part of this challenge is intentionally left really open. When you first use jQuery, you should play with it, mainly because changing things on the page is still going to be fun. Make the background of the page silly colours. Go find other pages on the web that have jQuery. Generally, if typing `jQuery` in the console returns something, you're in business. Insert rude words. Delete banners. Replace all the pictures on the page with Nikesh.

### Learning Objectives covered

- Explain some benefits of using jQuery above 'raw' JavaScript
- Explain some common jQuery idioms, such as `$(document).ready();`
- Use jQuery to build interactive functionality into a webpage

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:
- [ ] Add jQuery to the page
- [ ] Play with jQuery
- [ ] Play with jQuery a bit more
- [ ] Go to [You Might Not Need jQuery](http://youmightnotneedjquery.com/) and see the vanilla JavaScript you would have to write. It's good to at least know that you can do it without jQuery, and to understand that it's all just JavaScript under the hood.
- [ ] Create another file that will hold your JavaScript code that manages the interface between the UI and the thermostat object.  Load the file into your HTML page.
- [ ] Hook up your buttons/links to the underlying thermostat logic

### Resources
- [How jQuery works](http://learn.jquery.com/about-jquery/how-jquery-works/)
- [learn.jquery.com](https://learn.jquery.com/)
- [jQuery documentation](http://api.jquery.com/)

### [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/7.md)

Commit message:

Add learning objective to look at callbacks (only mentioned in walkthrough before)

thermostat/7_jquery.md, after:

# Thermostat: jQuery

[Back to the Challenge Map](0_challenge_map.md)

Now, you are at the point which excites a lot of people, and is also JavaScript's unique superpower - dynamically changing content on a webpage. Using JavaScript, we can grab any element on the page, change its HTML and CSS, delete it, move it elsewhere, draw on the page, and many other funtastic things. Seeing as so far all user interaction you've done so far has been through the medium of forms and links, this will hopefully excite you.

In this challenge, you will manipuate the Document Object Model (DOM) using JavaScript and jQuery.

### Challenge setup

The first part of this challenge is intentionally left really open. When you first use jQuery, you should play with it, mainly because changing things on the page is still going to be fun. Make the background of the page silly colours. Go find other pages on the web that have jQuery. Generally, if typing `jQuery` in the console returns something, you're in business. Insert rude words. Delete banners. Replace all the pictures on the page with Nikesh.

### Learning Objectives covered

- Explain some benefits of using jQuery above 'raw' JavaScript
- Explain some common jQuery idioms, such as `$(document).ready();`
- Use jQuery to build interactive functionality into a webpage
- Understand some things about how jQuery uses the technique of callbacks

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:
- [ ] Add jQuery to the page
- [ ] Play with jQuery
- [ ] Play with jQuery a bit more
- [ ] Go to [You Might Not Need jQuery](http://youmightnotneedjquery.com/) and see the vanilla JavaScript you would have to write. It's good to at least know that you can do it without jQuery, and to understand that it's all just JavaScript under the hood.
- [ ] Create another file that will hold your JavaScript code that manages the interface between the UI and the thermostat object.  Load the file into your HTML page.
- [ ] Hook up your buttons/links to the underlying thermostat logic

### Resources
- [How jQuery works](http://learn.jquery.com/about-jquery/how-jquery-works/)
- [learn.jquery.com](https://learn.jquery.com/)
- [jQuery documentation](http://api.jquery.com/)
* [Callbacks tutorial](http://javascriptissexy.com/understand-javascript-callback-functions-and-use-them/)


### [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/7.md)
