battle_ships_web/01_theweb.md, before:

# The Web: An Introduction

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

The internet is a system of **server-client** relationships. There are many different kinds of **client** and **server** but the relationship is the same: the client is dependent on the server for providing and managing information.

In this challenge you will learn about the client - server relationship.

### Learning Objectives covered
- Understand the client-server relationship.

### Challenge setup

This challenge uses [cURL](http://curl.haxx.se/), a command line tool useful for making HTTP requests. It comes with the operating system.

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] From the command line, use cURL to make a request to 'http://curl.haxx.se/'.
- [ ] Explain to your partner what you see.
- [ ] Explain to your partner:
  - [ ] what the "client" is in this situation.
  - [ ] what the "server" is in this situation.

### Resources

- [cURL Cheat Sheet](http://www.lornajane.net/posts/2008/curl-cheat-sheet)
- cURL manual: type `man curl` from the command line
- [Client-server model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Client%E2%80%93server_model)

### [Solution](solutions/3.md)

Commit message:

Switches EVERYTHING to HTTPie, as cURL wasn't quite doing what I want.
Chiefly it wouldn't show the body of a post request. HTTPie is also
prettier. ^_^

battle_ships_web/01_theweb.md, after:

# The Web: An Introduction

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

The internet is a system of **server-client** relationships. There are many different kinds of **client** and **server** but the relationship is the same: the client is dependent on the server for providing and managing information.

In this challenge you will learn about the client - server relationship.

### Learning Objectives covered
- Understand the client-server relationship.

### Challenge setup
This challenge uses [httpie](https://github.com/jkbrzt/httpie), a command line tool useful for making HTTP requests. Install it from the command line with: `brew install httpie`.

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] From the command line, use httpie to make a request to 'http://curl.haxx.se/'.
- [ ] Explain to your partner what you see.
- [ ] Explain to your partner:
  - [ ] what the "client" is in this situation.
  - [ ] what the "server" is in this situation.

### Resources

- [httpie usage](https://github.com/jkbrzt/httpie#usage)
- httpie manual: type `man httpie` from the command line
- [Client-server model](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Client%E2%80%93server_model)

### [Solution](solutions/3.md)
