battle_ships_web/02_http.md, before:

# The Hypertext Transfer Protocol

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

As we have seen, the web is a system of clients and servers talking to each other. But how do they talk to each other? Usually, clients and servers talk to each other using the HyperText Transfer Protocol. A client makes a **request** to a server and gets back a **response**. It is called a "protocol" because it has a defined structure for requests and responses.

In this challenge you will look at the important elements of an HTTP request and response.

### Learning Objectives covered
- Understand what request and response **headers** are.

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] Use cURL's "-v" flag and make a request to 'http://makersipsum.herokuapp.com/'.
- [ ] Divide what you see into three sections:
  - [ ] The request headers.
  - [ ] The response headers.
  - [ ] The **body** of the response.
- [ ] For each of the above, explain to your partner which side of the client-server relationship they originate from.

### Resources

- [cURL: How can I see request headers?](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/866946/how-can-i-see-the-request-headers-made-by-curl-when-sending-a-request-to-the-ser)
- [cURL: How can I see response headers?](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/10060098/getting-only-response-header-from-http-post-using-curl)

### [Solution](solutions/3.md)

Commit message:

Switches EVERYTHING to HTTPie, as cURL wasn't quite doing what I want.
Chiefly it wouldn't show the body of a post request. HTTPie is also
prettier. ^_^

battle_ships_web/02_http.md, after:

# The Hypertext Transfer Protocol

[Back to the Challenge Map](00_challenge_map.md)

As we have seen, the web is a system of clients and servers talking to each other. But how do they talk to each other? Usually, clients and servers talk to each other using the HyperText Transfer Protocol. A client makes a **request** to a server and gets back a **response**. It is called a "protocol" because it has a defined structure for requests and responses.

In this challenge you will look at the important elements of an HTTP request and response.

### Learning Objectives covered
- Recognise a request and a response and some of the important elements of each.

### Challenge setup
This challenge uses [httpie](https://github.com/jkbrzt/httpie), a command line tool useful for making HTTP requests. Install it from the command line with: `brew install httpie`.

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] Use httpie's "-v" flag and make a request to 'http://makersipsum.herokuapp.com/'.
- [ ] Divide what you see into three sections:
  - [ ] The request headers.
  - [ ] The response headers.
  - [ ] The **body** of the response.
- [ ] For each of the above, explain to your partner which side of the client-server relationship they originate from.

### Resources

# TO DO 

### [Solution](solutions/3.md)
