# Solution - complex attributes

[Back to the Challenge](../14_complex_attributes.md)

In comes an email from our client: docking stations should have a default capacity of 20. Hearing this, we refrain from leaping in to the code base, or even the tests, but update our user stories and domain model appropriately.

```
As a system maintainer,
So that I can plan the distribution of bikes,
I want a docking station to have a default capacity of 20 bikes.
```

We have some options now.  You might find yourself thinking about what data structure we use to enable docking stations to contain bikes. We might imagine a series of instance variables in our docking station class; e.g. `@bike0`, `@bike1`, `@bike2`; or an array instance variable, e.g. `@bikes = []`; or even a hash such as `@bikes = {}`.  Ideally, we should choose the least complex data structure that supports what we need to pass our tests.  It is often tempting to think, ooh, yes, bikes could have ids and so we could use a hash and then we could grab bike by id, e.g. `{'BIKEID007': <#Bike>}` etc., but we are not yet working on any user stories that require bikes to have ids.  You will make faster progress if you keep your object models and data structures as simple as possible.  In this case the array seems like a good choice for keeping track of the maximum 20 bikes we need to be able to store in our docking station.  And we might be tempted to leap in and start hacking up our application code, adding an array and so on, but it is a much better practice to hold off; deciding on the actual data structure or object model until the last reasonable moment.  Far better to allow the user stories to drive us to create tests that specify how our system operates.  Get that nailed down and then it should become clear which is the best choice of data structure or object model.

So let's adjust our existing manual feature test to support this new user story:

```
$ irb
2.1.5 :001 > require './lib/docking_station'
 => true
2.1.5 :002 > docking_station = DockingStation.new
 => #<DockingStation:0x007fe022230258 ...>
2.1.5 :003 > 20.times { docking_station.dock Bike.new }
 => #<Bike:0x007f8d7424cee0>
2.1.5 :004 > docking_station.dock Bike.new
RuntimeError: DockingStation
  .... stack trace omitted ....
```

Naturally this won't work as expected.  Note that we haven't updated our unit tests yet.  One step at a time.  It's a good idea to check that the system is giving you the behaviour you expect before each and every change.  Let's now update our docking_station_spec.rb unit test:

```ruby
require 'docking_station'

describe DockingStation do
  # other tests omitted for brevity

  describe '#dock' do
    it 'raises an error when full' do
      20.times { subject.dock Bike.new }
      expect { subject.dock Bike.new }.to raise_error 'Docking station full'
    end
  end
end
```

We should now have a failure from our unit test to match the way our manual feature test fails.  That means it's time to start changing our application code.  An array seems like a good data structure for holding the bikes - let's try that out:

```ruby
class DockingStation
  def initialize
    @bikes = []
  end

  def release_bike
    fail 'No bikes available' if @bikes.empty?
    @bikes.pop
  end

  def dock(bike)
    fail 'Docking station full' if @bikes.count >= 20
    @bikes << bike
  end
end
```

You should have run `rspec` without even thinking about it.  Everything green?  Just run your manual feature test checks in IRB and then you'll be ready to commit your code to GitHub right? Naturally you've been regularly backing up your code to GitHub all along :-) Just in case here's a reminder: **You should commit on each RED - GREEN - REFACTOR cycle.**  How much code do you want to risk losing in a computer crash?

[Forward to the Challenge Map](../0_challenge_map.md)