# Solution - isolating tests with doubles

[Back to the Challenge](../19_isolating_tests_with_doubles.md)

Let's look at the Unit Tests for `DockingStation`:

```ruby
require 'docking_station'

describe DockingStation do
  it { is_expected.to respond_to :release_bike }

  it 'releases working bikes' do
    subject.dock Bike.new
    bike = subject.release_bike
    expect(bike).to be_working
  end

  it 'does not release broken bikes' do
    bike = Bike.new
    bike.report_broken
    subject.dock bike
    expect {subject.release_bike}.to raise_error 'No bikes available'
  end

  it { is_expected.to respond_to(:dock).with(1).argument }

  describe 'release_bike' do
    it 'raises an error when there are no bikes available' do
      expect { subject.release_bike }.to raise_error 'No bikes available'
    end
  end

  describe 'dock' do
    it 'raises an error when full' do
      subject.capacity.times { subject.dock Bike.new }
      expect { subject.dock Bike.new }.to raise_error 'Docking station full'
    end
  end
end
```

The purpose of a unit test is to exhaustively test a single component.  In this case `DockingStation`.  But can you spot a potential problem?

Our test is not *isolated*.  It is dependent on another component of the system - `Bike` and therefore could be unexpectedly affected by changes to `Bike`.  We cannot say our unit test is truly a unit test if its outcome is influenced by changes in other components.

So how do we overcome this?  This is where we introduce *doubles*.  A *double* is a temporary, disposable object that we can use as a stand-in for some other real object - like a `Bike` for example.  The difference is, we can precisely define the behaviour of a double on a test-by-test basis to remove any uncertainty that the real object might introduce.

Let's zoom in on our `dock` test:

```ruby
describe 'dock' do
  it 'raises an error when full' do
    subject.capacity.times { subject.dock Bike.new }
    expect { subject.dock Bike.new }.to raise_error 'Docking station full'
  end
end
```

We are actually creating 21 instances of `Bike` in this test.  However, the test is not interested in the bikes, just that the docking station is full.  It could be full of pogo sticks, or strings, for all we care.  So rather than introduce the dependency on `Bike`, let's try using a String:

```ruby
describe 'dock' do
  it 'raises an error when full' do
    subject.capacity.times { subject.dock "I'm a string, not a bike" }
    expect { subject.dock :bike }.to raise_error 'Docking station full'
  end
end
```
Instead of docking an instance of `Bike`, we are simply docking the string `"I'm a string, not a bike` instead. It doesn't matter what we put in this String: we're just proving that this test will pass even if we don't give a `Bike` instance to the `DockingStation`. You can dock `20` of _anything_: once it's taken 20 objects, it will raise the error.

Passing `String` instances instead of `Bike` instances might suffice in the short term, but it's not a very robust solution.  If the docking station needs to interact with methods of a `Bike` object - like `working?`, then a `String` is no good: try calling `"Hello World".working?` in `irb`. See? `NoMethodError`. Strings aren't going to cut it when we need to query other classes within our Unit Tests.

Fortunately, RSpec provides a sophisticated framework for creating test doubles using the method `double(:class)`:

```ruby
describe 'dock' do
  it 'raises an error when full' do
    subject.capacity.times { subject.dock double :bike }
    expect { subject.dock double(:bike) }.to raise_error 'Docking station full'
  end
end
```

As we'll see in the next challenge, we can add behaviour to these `double`s when we create them.

> A little secret: it doesn't matter what symbol you use when creating a double using `double :symbol`. However, we tend to use the name of the doubled class in the symbol. Why might it be advantageous for future developers to see the name of the class we're doubling?

[Back to the Challenge Map](../0_challenge_map.md)
