pills/escalation_process.md, before:

# The Escalation Process

### No developer is an island
At Makers Academy we're interested in students becoming autonomous problem-solvers. 'Autonomy', however, does *not* mean the ability to source solutions entirely from one's own brain. What it means is the ability to iteratively work through a problem with a series of tools, starting with the most immediately available, the 'cheapest', and culminating in the most 'expensive'. We have the following process within Makers Academy that we recommend students follow.

### The Process

1. *???* Try to gather some words about the problem, even in vague terms. "It's broken" is not a problem description.

2. *Pair Partner.* Bounce off them, discuss, and [rubber-duck debug](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rubber_duck_debugging). Imagine you are seeing the problem for the first time, together.

3. *Isolate Keywords.* Gather a small group of keywords that describe the problem area, like `Array`, ‘Websockets’, or ‘Terminal’.

4. *Isolate Error Keywords.* If you have an error message, identify and add these keywords to your results from 3).

5. *Google.* Research the problem using your keywords. Also use the keywords to identify relevant results (i.e. not just the first one).

6. *Slack Overflow.* Post a [Slack Overflow](https://github.com/makersacademy/slack-overflow) issue.

7. *Coach.* If all else fails, get some 1-1 support. Don't be disappointed if the answer comes as more questions.

## Further Reading

* :pill: [How to debug your code](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/master/pills/debugging.md)
* [Slack Overflow](https://github.com/makersacademy/slack-overflow)

Commit message:

Add debugging :pill: as first step

pills/escalation_process.md, after:

# The Escalation Process

### No developer is an island
At Makers Academy we're interested in students becoming autonomous problem-solvers. 'Autonomy', however, does *not* mean the ability to source solutions entirely from one's own brain. What it means is the ability to iteratively work through a problem with a series of tools, starting with the most immediately available, the 'cheapest', and culminating in the most 'expensive'. We have the following process within Makers Academy that we recommend students follow.

### The Process

1. If you're stuck on a bug, follow the process in the [debugging](./debugging.md) :pill:.

2. *???* Try to gather some words about the problem, even in vague terms. "It's broken" is not a problem description.

3. *Pair Partner.* Bounce off them, discuss, and [rubber-duck debug](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rubber_duck_debugging). Imagine you are seeing the problem for the first time, together.

4. *Isolate Keywords.* Gather a small group of keywords that describe the problem area, like `Array`, ‘Websockets’, or ‘Terminal’.

5. *Isolate Error Keywords.* If you have an error message, identify and add these keywords to your results from 3).

6. *Google.* Research the problem using your keywords. Also use the keywords to identify relevant results (i.e. not just the first one).

7. *Slack Overflow.* Post a [Slack Overflow](https://github.com/makersacademy/slack-overflow) issue.

8. *Coach.* If all else fails, get some 1-1 support. Don't be disappointed if the answer comes as more questions.

## Further Reading

* [Slack Overflow](https://github.com/makersacademy/slack-overflow)
