pills/pairing.md, before:

Pair Programming
================

Pair programming is the process whereby two people actively collaborate on developing code.  Used as part of a general teamwork approach it leads to improved code quality, team communication, knowledge share and huge learning gains.  [Large scale studies of computer science students](http://www.cs.pomona.edu/classes/cs121/supp/williams_prpgm.pdf) have shown greatly improved outcomes when students pair program on coding problems.  In the past, pair programming has been restricted to those able to meet in the same location, however it is now possibley to remote pair program very easily using tools such as ScreenHero, Nitrous.io or simply Google Hangouts or Skype and [Github Pong](github_pong.md).

In fact [Github Pong](github_pong.md) can also be used by co-located programmers to avoid the need to share keyboards or screens.  Github Pong is recommended in that it encourages regular committing to Github and will massively boost your git skills.  However the key component of pair programming is regular driver/navigator switching&nbsp;:twisted_rightwards_arrows:.  When pair programming, at any one time, one person should be the driver, i.e. the person actually typing, while the other pair should be the navigator.  The navigator's role is to try and think more broadly about where the code is going; to act as a sounding board to the driver and to offer suggestions on architectural design or to be looking up documentation related to the task at hand.  The navigator should avoid constantly mentioning spelling mistakes and other typos unless the driver is really stuck.

It's absolutely critical that you swap driver and navigator roles frequently - probably at least once every 15 minutes.  If one person carries on driving for the whole session both parties learning and code quality will be impaired.  Whether you are extrovert or introvert, driver or navigator it is the responsibility of both of you to rotate roles.  Don't be a keyboard hog!

Pair programming can be very exhausting as it will often lead to a state of very highly focused concentration.  Make sure you take occasional breaks (say every 90 minutes), and remember that learning how to effectively pair with individuals from all backgrounds and personality types is at least as important as any individual coding skills.  Employers will often care more about your ability to work with others than they do about you knowing particular technologies.

Please do read through the pair programming tips and methodologies below and make sure to watch the videos referenced at the end of this document!


General Pair Programming Tips
--------------

###Do's:

* Talk
* Listen
* Rotate Roles
* Be Patient
* Respect each other
* Take Breaks
* Prepare for the session
* Take care of Personal Hygiene
* Have Fun


###Don't:

* Be Bossy
* Be Intimidated
* Be Quiet
* Suffer in Silence

Detailed Pair Programming Methodologies
-------------------------------

### 'Ping Pong' Pairing between Programmer A and B:

attributed to Jim Shore in his 2007 book "The Art of Agile Development"

![Ping Pong Protocol](/images/PingPongProtocol.png)


### 'Change the Message' between Programmer A and B:

attributed to John Wilger

![Change the Message](/images/ChangeTheMessage.png)


### 'One Undermanship' between Programmer A and B:

attributed to Sam Livingston Gray

![OneUndermanship](/images/OneUndermanShip.png)

Articles on Pair Programming
-------------

* [Pairing with Junior Developers](https://devmynd.com/blog/2015-1-pairing-with-junior-developers)

Pair Programming Research
-------------

* [Costs and Benefits of Pair Programming](http://www.cs.pomona.edu/classes/cs121/supp/williams_prpgm.pdf)
* [Guidelines for Pair Programming in the Classroom](http://people.cs.vt.edu/~mccricks/papers/wmlh08.pdf)
* [Compatibility of Pair Programmers](http://collaboration.csc.ncsu.edu/laurie/Papers/Compatibility.pdf)

Pair Programming Videos
-------------

* [Why we Pair](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=81tcbUwM0t0)
* [Does Pair Programming have to suck?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OQXEzwXtzJ8)
* [Pairing is Caring](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zCzc5W7vHQg)
* [Tools for Pair Programming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W_hsEi_UZHE)
* [HardCore Pairing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zaDk-08T8Wg)
* [Pair Programming in the Classroom](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rG_U12uqRhE)
* [Remote Pair Programming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yq1qgWvSIdI)
* [More Remote Pair Programming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f9ALSPlPQhg)

Commit message:

draft of pairing styles addition

pills/pairing.md, after:

Pair Programming
================

Pair programming is the process whereby two people actively collaborate on developing code.  Used as part of a general teamwork approach it leads to improved code quality, team communication, knowledge share and huge learning gains.  [Large scale studies of computer science students](http://www.cs.pomona.edu/classes/cs121/supp/williams_prpgm.pdf) have shown greatly improved outcomes when students pair program on coding problems.  In the past, pair programming has been restricted to those able to meet in the same location, however it is now possibley to remote pair program very easily using tools such as ScreenHero, Nitrous.io or simply Google Hangouts or Skype and [Github Pong](github_pong.md).

In fact [Github Pong](github_pong.md) can also be used by co-located programmers to avoid the need to share keyboards or screens.  Github Pong is recommended in that it encourages regular committing to Github and will massively boost your git skills.  However the key component of pair programming is regular driver/navigator switching&nbsp;:twisted_rightwards_arrows:.  When pair programming, at any one time, one person should be the driver, i.e. the person actually typing, while the other pair should be the navigator.  The navigator's role is to try and think more broadly about where the code is going; to act as a sounding board to the driver and to offer suggestions on architectural design or to be looking up documentation related to the task at hand.  The navigator should avoid constantly mentioning spelling mistakes and other typos unless the driver is really stuck.

It's absolutely critical that you swap driver and navigator roles frequently - probably at least once every 15 minutes.  If one person carries on driving for the whole session both parties learning and code quality will be impaired.  Whether you are extrovert or introvert, driver or navigator it is the responsibility of both of you to rotate roles.  Don't be a keyboard hog!

Pair programming can be very exhausting as it will often lead to a state of very highly focused concentration.  Make sure you take occasional breaks (say every 90 minutes), and remember that learning how to effectively pair with individuals from all backgrounds and personality types is at least as important as any individual coding skills.  Employers will often care more about your ability to work with others than they do about you knowing particular technologies.

Please do read through the pair programming tips and methodologies below and make sure to watch the videos referenced at the end of this document!

Styles
------

### Side by Side

This is not really true pairing.  It's just two people working on a related or similar problem while happening to be sitting next to each other.  It's friendly but doesn't give much benefit compared with working completely separately on a problem

### Master Slave 

Navigator tells driver exactly what to do and driver follows blindly.  In this case at least both parties are involved and the driver is building up some muscle memory from typing; however they may feel completely lost and not be gettig so much out of the experience.  It may be frustrating to the 'master navigator' to do anything other than slow down - they may want to just get in there and type themselves, but the key to both parties long term learning is to the process

### Lose the Navigator

driver just does everything and says almost nothing

TODO - add more detail

### Driver Narrative

driver is typing and explains what they do

TODO - add more detail

### Regular Swapping Roles - shared head space

both are doing effective narrative

TODO - add more detail


General Pair Programming Tips
--------------

###Do's:

* Talk
* Listen
* Rotate Roles
* Be Patient
* Respect each other
* Take Breaks
* Prepare for the session
* Take care of Personal Hygiene
* Have Fun


###Don't:

* Be Bossy
* Be Intimidated
* Be Quiet
* Suffer in Silence

Detailed Pair Programming Methodologies
-------------------------------

### 'Ping Pong' Pairing between Programmer A and B:

attributed to Jim Shore in his 2007 book "The Art of Agile Development"

![Ping Pong Protocol](/images/PingPongProtocol.png)


### 'Change the Message' between Programmer A and B:

attributed to John Wilger

![Change the Message](/images/ChangeTheMessage.png)


### 'One Undermanship' between Programmer A and B:

attributed to Sam Livingston Gray

![OneUndermanship](/images/OneUndermanShip.png)

Articles on Pair Programming
-------------

* [Pairing with Junior Developers](https://devmynd.com/blog/2015-1-pairing-with-junior-developers)

Pair Programming Research
-------------

* [Costs and Benefits of Pair Programming](http://www.cs.pomona.edu/classes/cs121/supp/williams_prpgm.pdf)
* [Guidelines for Pair Programming in the Classroom](http://people.cs.vt.edu/~mccricks/papers/wmlh08.pdf)
* [Compatibility of Pair Programmers](http://collaboration.csc.ncsu.edu/laurie/Papers/Compatibility.pdf)

Pair Programming Videos
-------------

* [Why we Pair](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=81tcbUwM0t0)
* [Does Pair Programming have to suck?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OQXEzwXtzJ8)
* [Pairing is Caring](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zCzc5W7vHQg)
* [Tools for Pair Programming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W_hsEi_UZHE)
* [HardCore Pairing](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zaDk-08T8Wg)
* [Pair Programming in the Classroom](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rG_U12uqRhE)
* [Remote Pair Programming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Yq1qgWvSIdI)
* [More Remote Pair Programming](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f9ALSPlPQhg)
