pills/post-course-technical-coaching.md, before:

# Post course technical coaching resource

After graduation it can be difficult to know what to focus on. You want to find a job, but you also need to keep up technically and, ideally, keep improving. How can you best improve? Where should you be focussing your energy? What are the technical skills that you most need to work on?

Makers' provide technical coaching resource to graduates to help them (a) answer these questions and (b) direct their learning in ways that most usefully address their needs.

This document is a high-level guide to how coaches can help graduates and how and when to make use of them.

## Why does this matter to me?

All developers should continue their learning journey after graduation, don't assume that you are the finished article after 12 weeks - the best developers continue to learn throughout their career.

Signs that you should reach out for some technical coaching:
- You're not writing a lot of code
- You don't feel like you're getting better as a developer
- You've spent the last few weeks doing tutorials and haven't worked on any side projects of your own  
- You're motivation is flagging or development no longer feels fun
- You're applying for lots of jobs but not getting past the first hurdle

You should still be asking yourself the question **"Am I better developer than I was yesterday?"**

## What resources are available to me?

### Daily standup at 10.30am

**What:** A daily standup style meeting where everybody checks in with what they're working on, what they've done, and gets a chance to raise any concerns. Standup is usually done on line so you can dial in remotely even if you're not in the building.

**Who:** Everybody! It can help to add structure to your day, keep you part of the community, hold yourself accountable and gives you an easy route in to talk to our careers coaching team if there are things on your mind.  

### Individual Learning Plan (ILP)

**What:** Regular meetings with a coach to feedback on progress and direct learning activities. Coaches may perform process observations, recommend katas, perform code reviews, suggest projects, or anything else they feel would best help the developer move forward.

**Who:** Available to anybody who wants help ensuring that they are making the most of their time; recommended for developers who aren't seeing measurable progress in their own learning.

### Pairing

**What:** If you're finding it difficult to work by yourself then make use of those around you. There are plenty of other graduates in the same situation. If you can't find somebody who wants to work on what you're working on, speak to a coach, we'll try and find you somebody to work with.

There are also recent and returning grads available for pairing work on occasion (e.g. Michael). They should make themselves known in the #jobhunters channel.

**Who:** Available to (and indeed encouraged for) everybody; particularly useful if you're finding working alone demotivating.

### Mock Technical Interviews

**What:** A 45-min to 60-min session based around a back-end, front-end or full-stack theme. This might involve variously discussion of some of your own code, comprehension of somebody else's code and/or exploration of wider technical concepts. The goal is to help you understand how you're doing and what areas you need to improve.

**Who:** Anybody still to find a job; recommended for grads who have been job-hunting for more than a month.

## How do I access these resources?

We don't have a particularly slick booking system - just contact Becks, Mark or Daniel. Either come talk to us if we're around the 3rd floor or mezzanine or if not send us a Slack message. We'll get back to you and try and arrange a time.

## How does this affect my chances of finding work?

Coding more and committing to a regular working day following the course can only positively impact your ability to find work.

When shortlisting for jobs, there careers team are trying to balance a number of factors, but ultimately the hiring partners want to see the strongest applicants. Those applicants are assess on a number of factors, explained in more detail in our [shortlisting pill](https://github.com/makersacademy/jobhunters/blob/master/careers/shortlisting.md). In particular "How frequently are they committing code on github?", "Do they have a side project?" and "Is there proof that they have acted on technical feedback from previous applications?" are all things that you can demonstrate by maintaining a structure routine of development work after your graduate.

Why do these things matter? They matter because this is what our hiring partners want to see - when they're assessing candidates, they're going to look at your Github as almost the first port of call. They want to see not only that you did stuff during the course, but that you've remained committed to development after the course and that you have the initiative and the ability to keep challenging yourself in that environment.

## FAQs

### How often should I be coding?
Ideally, most days! You should be aiming to make at least a few commits each week. After a careers fair you may have a number of job applications to make but you should still try and make time to write code at some point. And yes, tech tests count!

### How do I know when to focus on coding and when to focus on job-hunting?
If you're making a lot of applications but not having a great deal of luck, then it's likely that there is an area where you could improve and you should consider making coding and learning your primary focus for a couple of weeks. Talk to a coach if you're unsure - start an ILP or book a Mock Technical Interview to get feedback on how your skills stack up.

### I need to keep applying for jobs to meet the Job Offer Guarantee, I have no time for writing code
We don't want the JOG to be a barrier. If you think you would benefit from some time spent focussing on development, come talk to us. If in the course of an ILP or as the result of a Mock Interview we think you should spend some time focussing on code, we'll tell you. This won't affect your JOG - we want to give you the best possible chance, and sometimes that means taking time out to level up.

**Ultimately, if you're unsure about anything, please come talk to one of us!**

Commit message:

Updated post-course pill with shortlisting section

pills/post-course-technical-coaching.md, after:

# Post course technical coaching resource

After graduation it can be difficult to know what to focus on. You want to find a job, but you also need to keep up technically and, ideally, keep improving. How can you best improve? Where should you be focussing your energy? What are the technical skills that you most need to work on?

Makers' provide technical coaching resource to graduates to help them (a) answer these questions and (b) direct their learning in ways that most usefully address their needs.

This document is a high-level guide to how coaches can help graduates and how and when to make use of them.

## Why does this matter to me?

All developers should continue their learning journey after graduation, don't assume that you are the finished article after 12 weeks - the best developers continue to learn throughout their career.

Signs that you should reach out for some technical coaching:
- You're not writing a lot of code
- You don't feel like you're getting better as a developer
- You've spent the last few weeks doing tutorials and haven't worked on any side projects of your own  
- You're motivation is flagging or development no longer feels fun
- You're applying for lots of jobs but not getting past the first hurdle

You should still be asking yourself the question **"Am I better developer than I was yesterday?"**

## What resources are available to me?

### Daily standup at 10.30am

**What:** A daily standup style meeting where everybody checks in with what they're working on, what they've done, and gets a chance to raise any concerns. Standup is usually done on line so you can dial in remotely even if you're not in the building.

**Who:** Everybody! It can help to add structure to your day, keep you part of the community, hold yourself accountable and gives you an easy route in to talk to our careers coaching team if there are things on your mind.  

### Individual Learning Plan (ILP)

**What:** Regular meetings with a coach to feedback on progress and direct learning activities. Coaches may perform process observations, recommend katas, perform code reviews, suggest projects, or anything else they feel would best help the developer move forward.

**Who:** Available to anybody who wants help ensuring that they are making the most of their time; recommended for developers who aren't seeing measurable progress in their own learning.

### Pairing

**What:** If you're finding it difficult to work by yourself then make use of those around you. There are plenty of other graduates in the same situation. If you can't find somebody who wants to work on what you're working on, speak to a coach, we'll try and find you somebody to work with.

There are also recent and returning grads available for pairing work on occasion (e.g. Michael). They should make themselves known in the #jobhunters channel.

**Who:** Available to (and indeed encouraged for) everybody; particularly useful if you're finding working alone demotivating.

### Mock Technical Interviews

**What:** A 45-min to 60-min session based around a back-end, front-end or full-stack theme. This might involve variously discussion of some of your own code, comprehension of somebody else's code and/or exploration of wider technical concepts. The goal is to help you understand how you're doing and what areas you need to improve.

**Who:** Anybody still to find a job; recommended for grads who have been job-hunting for more than a month.

## How do I access these resources?

We don't have a particularly slick booking system - just contact Becks, Mark or Daniel. Either come talk to us if we're around the 3rd floor or mezzanine or if not send us a Slack message. We'll get back to you and try and arrange a time.

## How does this affect my chances of finding work?

Coding more and committing to a regular working day following the course can only positively impact your ability to find work.

When shortlisting for jobs, there careers team are trying to balance a number of factors, but ultimately the hiring partners want to see the strongest applicants. Those applicants are assess on a number of factors, explained in more detail in our [shortlisting pill](https://github.com/makersacademy/jobhunters/blob/master/careers/shortlisting.md).

In particular "How frequently are they committing code on github?", "Do they have a side project?" and "Is there proof that they have acted on technical feedback from previous applications?" are all things that you can demonstrate by maintaining a structure routine of development work after your graduate.

Why do these things matter? They matter because this is what our hiring partners want to see - they're going to look at your Github and they're going to ask us for our technical recommendations. If you've got high quality side projects or you've requested a mock interview and done well, that tells us that you're a top quality candidate and you're more likely to be shortlisted. 

## FAQs

### How often should I be coding?
Ideally, most days! You should be aiming to make at least a few commits each week. After a careers fair you may have a number of job applications to make but you should still try and make time to write code at some point. And yes, tech tests count!

### How do I know when to focus on coding and when to focus on job-hunting?
If you're making a lot of applications but not having a great deal of luck, then it's likely that there is an area where you could improve and you should consider making coding and learning your primary focus for a couple of weeks. Talk to a coach if you're unsure - start an ILP or book a Mock Technical Interview to get feedback on how your skills stack up.

### I need to keep applying for jobs to meet the Job Offer Guarantee, I have no time for writing code
We don't want the JOG to be a barrier. If you think you would benefit from some time spent focussing on development, come talk to us. If in the course of an ILP or as the result of a Mock Interview we think you should spend some time focussing on code, we'll tell you. This won't affect your JOG - we want to give you the best possible chance, and sometimes that means taking time out to level up.

**Ultimately, if you're unsure about anything, please come talk to one of us!**
