# Solution - Thermostat: interface

[Back to the Challenge](../6_interface.md)

Working from the code we had in the earlier solution (your code may well be different) and the specification, there are a few input elements that are fairly obvious from the code, as they are functions that represent the thermostat's API:

- `thermostat.up()`
- `thermostat.down()`
- `thermostat.reset()`

However, on further inspection, it looks like the tests have missed something - something that toggles the thermostat's power saving mode. Add that in, if you haven't already got it:

```javascript
// spec/thermostatSpec.js

it('toggles power saving mode', function() {
  thermostat.powerSavingModeToggle();
  expect(thermostat.powerSavingMode).toBe(false);
});

// src/thermostat.js

Thermostat.prototype.powerSavingModeToggle = function() {
  this.powerSavingMode = !this.powerSavingMode;
}
```

>If you simply reached into your object and changed `this.powerSavingMode`, remember that you are breaking encapsulation. Always create an interface to access the internal state of your object. Note that if you are simply reading a value and not mutating anything (for example, to see what the temperature is), that's generally okay. Think in terms of Ruby's `attr_readers`, `attr_writers` and `attr_accessors`

What is the information that has to be represented to the user? The main thing would be the temperature, in the colour specified. It would probably also help to know whether power saving mode is on.

Armed with that knowledge, it's time to break out some HTML. You can put this in `index.html` at the top level of your project.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title>Thermostat</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <section>
      <h1 id="temperature"></h1>
      <p>
        <button id="temperature-up">+</button>
        <button id="temperature-down">-</button>
        <button id="temperature-reset">reset</button>
        <button id="power-saving-toggle">toggle power saving</button>
        power saving mode <span id="power-saving"></span>
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
```

Check it in your browser. Ain't it beautiful.

Now, add your thermostat code to the page, with a `<script>` tag just before the closing `<body>` tag.

```html
<script src="js/thermostat.js"></script>
```

Make sure that everything's working by trying to play with your thermostat in the console.

[Forward to the Challenge Map](../0_challenge_map.md)
