boris_bikes/0_challenge_map.md, before:

# Boris Bikes Challenges

London's [Boris Bikes](https://tfl.gov.uk/modes/cycling/santander-cycles) (well, 'Santander Cycles') are awesome. For a small fee, anyone can hire out a bike and ride it around London. Bikes are located at Docking Stations dotted throughout the city.

### Welcome to being a developer

Let's go back several years, to the days when there were no Boris Bikes. Imagine that you're a junior developer (congratulations! That was easy). Transport for London, the body responsible for delivery of a new bike system, come to you with a plan: a network of Docking Stations and bikes that anyone can use. They want you to build a program that will run all the Docking Stations, simulate all the Bikes, and emulate all the infrastructure (vans, repair staff, and so on) required to make their dream a reality. They call it - guess what? - 'Boris' Bikes, and they're offering a tasty sum of money.

These challenges will help to guide your first few steps when presented with _any_ software project. There are 22 challenges, and they all build on one another. They require you to research things, to get stuck, and to find your own solutions. This is on purpose. A developer is a 'knowledge worker' - someone who will spend the majority of their time researching and learning how to solve problems. It'll suck for a bit, but with practice, you will get faster: and there's no better feeling than finding the answer to a problem that's been standing in your way for hours.

When you're ready, start at Challenge 1: Setting up a Project. Good luck!

### Challenges

1. [Setting up a Project](1_setting_up_a_project.md)
2. [Working with User Stories](2_working_with_user_stories.md)
3. [From a Domain Model to a Feature Test](3_from_domain_models_to_feature_tests.md)
4. [Errors are good](4_errors_are_good.md)
5. [From Feature Tests to Unit Tests](5_from_feature_tests_to_unit_tests.md)
6. [Passing your first Unit Test](6_passing_your_first_unit_test.md)
7. [Back to the feature](7_back_to_the_feature.md)
8. [Back to the unit](8_back_to_the_unit.md)
9. [Building a bike](9_building_a_bike.md)
10. [Making Docking Stations get Bikes](10_making_stations_release_bikes.md)
11. [Using Instance Variables](11_using_instance_variables.md)
12. [Raising Exceptions](12_raising_exceptions.md)
13. [Limiting Capacity](13_limiting_capacity.md)
14. [Using Complex Attributes](14_complex_attributes.md)
15. [The Single Responsibility Principle](15_single_responsibility_principle.md)
16. [Removing Magic Numbers](16_removing_magic_numbers.md)
17. [Initialization Defaults](17_initialization_defaults.md)
18. [Dealing with Broken Bikes](18_dealing_with_broken_bikes.md)
19. [Isolating Tests with Doubles](19_isolating_tests_with_doubles.md)
20. [Mocking Behaviour on Doubles](20_mocking_behaviour_on_doubles.md)
21. [Men with Ven](21_men_with_ven.md)
22. [Modules as Mixins](22_modules_as_mixins.md)

### Post-challenge

After the challenges, you can stretch yourself by implementing additional User Stories that significantly enhance the domain.

1. [Post-challenge](post_challenge.md)

Commit message:

Add more detail about first week kickoff

boris_bikes/0_challenge_map.md, after:

# Boris Bikes Challenges

London's [Boris Bikes](https://tfl.gov.uk/modes/cycling/santander-cycles) (well, 'Santander Cycles') are awesome. Anyone can hire out a bike and ride it around London.

### Welcome to being a developer

Let's go back several years, to the days when there were no Boris Bikes. Imagine that you're a junior developer (that was easy). Transport for London, the body responsible for delivery of a new bike system, come to you with a plan: a network of docking stations and bikes that anyone can use. They want you to build a program that will emulate all the docking stations, bikes, and infrastructure (repair staff, and so on) required to make their dream a reality.

To help structure your work, here are 22 challenges. They all build on one another. They require you to research things, to get stuck, and to find your own solutions. This is on purpose. A developer is a 'knowledge worker' - someone who will spend the majority of their time researching and learning how to solve problems. It'll suck for a bit, but with practice, you will get faster: and there's no better feeling than finding the answer to a problem that's been standing in your way for hours.

## Learning objectives

### Goals for the week

Ask yourself the same two questions:

* Are you having fun?

* Are you a better developer than you were yesterday?

#### Primary goal

By the end of the week, the goal is to be able to answer "yes" to the week's primary question:

* **Can you use a test-driven approach to write object-oriented code?**

### Challenges

1. [Setting up a Project](1_setting_up_a_project.md)
2. [Working with User Stories](2_working_with_user_stories.md)
3. [From a Domain Model to a Feature Test](3_from_domain_models_to_feature_tests.md)
4. [Errors are good](4_errors_are_good.md)
5. [From Feature Tests to Unit Tests](5_from_feature_tests_to_unit_tests.md)
6. [Passing your first Unit Test](6_passing_your_first_unit_test.md)
7. [Back to the feature](7_back_to_the_feature.md)
8. [Back to the unit](8_back_to_the_unit.md)
9. [Building a bike](9_building_a_bike.md)
10. [Making Docking Stations get Bikes](10_making_stations_release_bikes.md)
11. [Using Instance Variables](11_using_instance_variables.md)
12. [Raising Exceptions](12_raising_exceptions.md)
13. [Limiting Capacity](13_limiting_capacity.md)
14. [Using Complex Attributes](14_complex_attributes.md)
15. [The Single Responsibility Principle](15_single_responsibility_principle.md)
16. [Removing Magic Numbers](16_removing_magic_numbers.md)
17. [Initialization Defaults](17_initialization_defaults.md)
18. [Dealing with Broken Bikes](18_dealing_with_broken_bikes.md)
19. [Isolating Tests with Doubles](19_isolating_tests_with_doubles.md)
20. [Mocking Behaviour on Doubles](20_mocking_behaviour_on_doubles.md)
21. [Men with Ven](21_men_with_ven.md)
22. [Modules as Mixins](22_modules_as_mixins.md)

### Post-challenge

After the challenges, you can stretch yourself by implementing additional User Stories that significantly enhance the domain.

1. [Post-challenge](post_challenge.md)
