boris_bikes/1_setting_up_a_project.md, before:

# Setting up a project

[Back to the Challenge Map](0_challenge_map.md)

Every good code project starts with a git repository. To get started with Boris Bikes, you need to get your repository set up, and uploaded to GitHub.

### Learning Objectives covered
- Set up a simple project
- Explain why a complete README is important
- Initialize and push a git project

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] Create a directory from the command line
- [ ] Initialize a git repository within that directory
- [ ] Create a README.md file from the command line
- [ ] Write a clear README
- [ ] Add the README.md to the staging area
- [ ] Commit your changes with a clear message
- [ ] Push the project to Github.

### Resources
- [Common command-line commands](http://guides.macrumors.com/Terminal)
- :pill: [Advanced command-line commands](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/master/pills/command_line.md)
- [git - the simple guide](http://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/)
- :pill: [git - advanced guide](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/master/pills/git.md)
- [Creating and removing files from the Terminal](http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/apple-in-the-enterprise/creating-and-deleting-files-using-the-mac-terminal/)
- [A beginners guide to writing a kickass README](https://medium.com/@meakaakka/a-beginners-guide-to-writing-a-kickass-readme-7ac01da88ab3)


### [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/1.md)

Commit message:

week one stage one hinsts

boris_bikes/1_setting_up_a_project.md, after:

# Setting up a project

[Back to the Challenge Map](0_challenge_map.md)

Every good code project starts with a git repository. To get started with Boris Bikes, you need to get your repository set up, and uploaded to GitHub.

### Learning Objectives covered
- Set up a simple project
- Explain why a complete README is important
- Initialize and push a git project

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] Create a directory from the command line
- [ ] Initialize a git repository within that directory
- [ ] Create a README.md file from the command line
- [ ] Write a clear README
- [ ] Add the README.md to the staging area
- [ ] Commit your changes with a clear message
- [ ] Push the project to Github.

### Hints
&nbsp;<details><summary>CLICK ME</summary>
* At the bottom of this challenge outline, and for most others you'll see over the course of the week, you'll find some links to external resources. These links will provide you with useful information to help you complete the challenge in question so *it's super important to look at them*! Sometimes the links will provide you with everything you need to complete a challenge, sometimes they'll provide you with a jumping off point for further research, but they'll always be worth reading before you resort to checking the walkthrough.
* You should have already done everything you need to do as part of this challenge during the PreCourse.  Look at the checklist above, completing the steps one at a time.  Refer to the links below if you're struggling to remember the command you need.
&nbsp;</details>

### Resources
- [Common command-line commands](http://guides.macrumors.com/Terminal)
- :pill: [Advanced command-line commands](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/master/pills/command_line.md)
- [git - the simple guide](http://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/)
- :pill: [git - advanced guide](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/master/pills/git.md)
- [Creating and removing files from the Terminal](http://www.techrepublic.com/blog/apple-in-the-enterprise/creating-and-deleting-files-using-the-mac-terminal/)
- [A beginners guide to writing a kickass README](https://medium.com/@meakaakka/a-beginners-guide-to-writing-a-kickass-readme-7ac01da88ab3)


### [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/1.md)
