boris_bikes/2_working_with_user_stories.md, before:

# From User Stories to a Domain Model

[Back to the Challenge Map](0_challenge_map.md)

A **User Story** describes one thing a program is expected to do, from the perspective of somebody using that program. When planning a program, the client's requirements will be decomposed into many User Stories. Much of a developer's life is spent translating User Stories into a functional system. In Object-Oriented Programming, these systems are made up of Objects and Messages. Objects describe the objects within the system, and Messages describe how those objects interact. We call these systems **Domain Models**.

In this challenge, you will transform a User Story into a Domain Model.

### Learning Objectives covered
- Give the structure of a User Story
- Extract a Domain Model from User Stories

### Challenge setup

Here is a user story:

```
As a user, 
So I can find customers,
I want to search for my customers by their surnames.
```

And here is a functional representation of that story:

Objects  | Messages
------------- | -------------
User  | 
Customer  | find_by_surname

You must translate these two user stories into a functional representation:

```
As a person,
So that I can use a bike,
I'd like a docking station to release a bike.

As a person,
So that I can use a good bike,
I'd like to see if a bike is working
```

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] Write down all the nouns in the User Stories
- [ ] Write down all the verbs in the User Stories
- [ ] Draw a table like the one above
- [ ] Organise the nouns and verbs into Objects and Messages within the table
- [ ] Draw a diagram that shows how your Objects will use Messages to communicate with one another

### Resources
- [Introduction to User Stories](https://www.mountaingoatsoftware.com/agile/user-stories)
- [What's a Domain Model?](http://sjmog.github.io/posts/502_domain-modelling/)
- [Explain Like I'm 5 - Object-Oriented Programming](https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/1pyhng/eli5_objected_oriented_programming/)
- [What's a Class Structure?](http://sjmog.github.io/posts/504_whats-a-class-structure/)

### [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/2.md)

Commit message:

week one stage two hints

boris_bikes/2_working_with_user_stories.md, after:

# From User Stories to a Domain Model

[Back to the Challenge Map](0_challenge_map.md)

A **User Story** describes one thing a program is expected to do, from the perspective of somebody using that program. When planning a program, the client's requirements will be decomposed into many User Stories. Much of a developer's life is spent translating User Stories into a functional system. In Object-Oriented Programming, these systems are made up of Objects and Messages. Objects describe the objects within the system, and Messages describe how those objects interact. We call these systems **Domain Models**.

In this challenge, you will transform a User Story into a Domain Model.

### Learning Objectives covered
- Give the structure of a User Story
- Extract a Domain Model from User Stories

### Challenge setup

Here is a user story:

```
As a user,
So I can find customers,
I want to search for my customers by their surnames.
```

And here is a functional representation of that story:

Objects  | Messages
------------- | -------------
User  |
Customer  | find_by_surname

You must translate these two user stories into a functional representation:

```
As a person,
So that I can use a bike,
I'd like a docking station to release a bike.

As a person,
So that I can use a good bike,
I'd like to see if a bike is working
```

### To complete this challenge, you will need to:

- [ ] Write down all the nouns in the User Stories
- [ ] Write down all the verbs in the User Stories
- [ ] Draw a table like the one above
- [ ] Organise the nouns and verbs into Objects and Messages within the table
- [ ] Draw a diagram that shows how your Objects will use Messages to communicate with one another

### Hints
<details><summary>CLICK ME</summary>
  <ul>  
    <li>The first part of this challenge is straightforward enough - use the table above as an example of what you need to achieve</li>
    <li>Next, you'll need to create a diagram to demonstrate Object interactions.  This can take any form you like as long as it shows what your objects will be, and what messages you expect them to respond to</li>
  </ul>
</details>

### Resources
- [Introduction to User Stories](https://www.mountaingoatsoftware.com/agile/user-stories)
- [What's a Domain Model?](http://sjmog.github.io/posts/502_domain-modelling/)
- [Explain Like I'm 5 - Object-Oriented Programming](https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/1pyhng/eli5_objected_oriented_programming/)
- [What's a Class Structure?](http://sjmog.github.io/posts/504_whats-a-class-structure/)

### [Walkthrough](walkthroughs/2.md)
