boris_bikes/learning_objectives.md, before:

# Learning Objectives: Boris Bikes

> Learning Objectives summarise everything you will learn this week. If you want more detail, go to the [Learning Outcomes](learning_outcomes.md).

### [Challenge 1](1_setting_up_a_project.md)

- Set up a simple project
- Explain why a complete README is important
- Intialize and push a git project

### [Challenge 2](2_working_with_user_stories.md)

- Give the structure of a User Story
- Extract a Domain Model from User Stories

### [Challenge 3](3_from_domain_models_to_feature_tests.md)

- Define 'Feature Test'
- Define 'stack trace'
- Use `irb` to run a 'feature test'

### [Challenge 4](4_errors_are_good.md)

- Explain how to use a stack trace to debug errors
- Debug an error using a stack trace

### [Challenge 5](5_from_feature_tests_to_unit_tests.md)

- Define RSpec as a testing framework
- Create a spec file
- Describe and Object using a specification
- Set up a Unit Test

### [Challenge 6](6_passing_your_first_unit_test.md)

- Pass a unit test
- Use `require`

### [Challenge 7](7_back_to_the_feature.md)

- Move between Feature and Unit Tests

### [Challenge 8](8_back_to_the_unit.md)

- Write an RSpec test using `it`
- Test that an Object responds to a Message

### [Challenge 9](9_building_a_bike.md)

- Practice Learning Objectives from Challenges 3 – 8

### [Challenge 10](10_making_stations_release_bikes.md)

- Use Objects within other Objects
- Use RSpec 'predicate' syntax
- Pass a feature test

### [Post Challenge 1](post_challenges/post_challenge_1.md)

- Write RSpec tests that require arguments
- Write RSpec tests that `expect` errors
- Use `fail` or `raise` to raise an error
- Set an attribute on an instantiated Object using an `@` instance variable
- Use a 'guard condition'

### [Post Challenge 2](post_challenges/post_challenge_2.md)

- Set a complex attribute on an instantiated Object
- Set an initial attribute value using `initialize`
- Refactor code for readability
- Use a constant
- Use `attr_reader` to read an attribute on an instantiated Object

### [Post Challenge 3](post_challenges/post_challenge_3.md)

- Implement a feature from scratch

### [Post Challenge 4](post_challenges/post_challenge_4.md)

- Explain why doubles are needed to isolate unit tests
- Use a double to isolate a unit test
- Explain why method stubs are needed to isolate unit tests
- Use a method stub to isolate a unit test
- Discuss 'London' and 'Chicago' testing styles

### [Post Challenge 5](post_challenges/post_challenge_5.md)

- Extract shared behaviour to a Module
- Mix a Module into a Class using `include`
- Test Modules

### [Post Challenge 6](post_challenges/post_challenge_6.md)

- Reuse flexible code in a different domain
- Add an interactive text interface to a program



### Activities
* Use BDD/TDD and pair programming together to create a simple model of the Boris Bikes problem in Ruby.
* Use BDD/TDD and solo programming to approach a slightly more complex model (e.g. Airports) which requires wider use of doubles.

Weekly Challenge
===========

## Airport

**Learning Objectives**

* Simple OOD and OOP creating and linking at least two objects via composition
* Mocking random behaviour effectively in order to ensure consistent and reliable tests
* Test driven development (TDD)

## Tube

**Learning Objectives**

* Simple OOD and OOP creating and linking at least two objects via composition
* Writing effective tests, i.e. doing TDD

Commit message:

refactor 11 to be about instance variables and add solution 11

boris_bikes/learning_objectives.md, after:

# Learning Objectives: Boris Bikes

> Learning Objectives summarise everything you will learn this week. If you want more detail, go to the [Learning Outcomes](learning_outcomes.md).

### [Challenge 1](1_setting_up_a_project.md)

- Set up a simple project
- Explain why a complete README is important
- Intialize and push a git project

### [Challenge 2](2_working_with_user_stories.md)

- Give the structure of a User Story
- Extract a Domain Model from User Stories

### [Challenge 3](3_from_domain_models_to_feature_tests.md)

- Define 'Feature Test'
- Define 'stack trace'
- Use `irb` to run a 'feature test'

### [Challenge 4](4_errors_are_good.md)

- Explain how to use a stack trace to debug errors
- Debug an error using a stack trace

### [Challenge 5](5_from_feature_tests_to_unit_tests.md)

- Define RSpec as a testing framework
- Create a spec file
- Describe and Object using a specification
- Set up a Unit Test

### [Challenge 6](6_passing_your_first_unit_test.md)

- Pass a unit test
- Use `require`

### [Challenge 7](7_back_to_the_feature.md)

- Move between Feature and Unit Tests

### [Challenge 8](8_back_to_the_unit.md)

- Write an RSpec test using `it`
- Test that an Object responds to a Message

### [Challenge 9](9_building_a_bike.md)

- Practice Learning Objectives from Challenges 3 – 8

### [Challenge 10](10_making_stations_release_bikes.md)

- Use Objects within other Objects
- Use RSpec 'predicate' syntax
- Pass a feature test

### [Challenge 11](11_using_instance_variables.md)
- Write RSpec tests that require arguments
- Pass an instance as an argument
- Set an attribute on an instantiated Object using an `@` instance variable
- Use `attr_reader` to read an attribute on an instantiated Object

### [Challenge 12](12_raising_errors.md)
- Write RSpec tests that `expect` errors
- Use `fail` or `raise` to raise an error
- Use a 'guard condition'

### [Post Challenge 1](post_challenges/post_challenge_1.md)

- Write RSpec tests that require arguments
- Write RSpec tests that `expect` errors
- Use `fail` or `raise` to raise an error
- Set an attribute on an instantiated Object using an `@` instance variable
- Use a 'guard condition'

### [Post Challenge 2](post_challenges/post_challenge_2.md)

- Set a complex attribute on an instantiated Object
- Set an initial attribute value using `initialize`
- Refactor code for readability
- Use a constant
- Use `attr_reader` to read an attribute on an instantiated Object

### [Post Challenge 3](post_challenges/post_challenge_3.md)

- Implement a feature from scratch

### [Post Challenge 4](post_challenges/post_challenge_4.md)

- Explain why doubles are needed to isolate unit tests
- Use a double to isolate a unit test
- Explain why method stubs are needed to isolate unit tests
- Use a method stub to isolate a unit test
- Discuss 'London' and 'Chicago' testing styles

### [Post Challenge 5](post_challenges/post_challenge_5.md)

- Extract shared behaviour to a Module
- Mix a Module into a Class using `include`
- Test Modules

### [Post Challenge 6](post_challenges/post_challenge_6.md)

- Reuse flexible code in a different domain
- Add an interactive text interface to a program



### Activities
* Use BDD/TDD and pair programming together to create a simple model of the Boris Bikes problem in Ruby.
* Use BDD/TDD and solo programming to approach a slightly more complex model (e.g. Airports) which requires wider use of doubles.

Weekly Challenge
===========

## Airport

**Learning Objectives**

* Simple OOD and OOP creating and linking at least two objects via composition
* Mocking random behaviour effectively in order to ensure consistent and reliable tests
* Test driven development (TDD)

## Tube

**Learning Objectives**

* Simple OOD and OOP creating and linking at least two objects via composition
* Writing effective tests, i.e. doing TDD
