lab_week/lab_week.md, before:

Lab Week
========

### What is Lab Week?
Lab Week is one of the most important weeks at Makers Academy. It marks a transition from the first half of the course, through which students follow a tutorial or spec set out for them by coaches, to the second half of the course, which is much more student-led. It is a time to review, in a self-directed way, the material covered thus far, or to pick up a technology you find interesting.

### How should I approach Lab Week?
It is entirely up to you how you approach Lab Week. That said, we strongly recommend the following:
- That you be at Makers Academy from **9AM, Monday through Friday**.
- That you work in a team of 4 or 5, pair with members of your team, and run twice-daily stand-ups within your team. Again, writing great code is a social activity. Create private rooms on Slack to stay coordinated.
- That you plan to focus on a particular topic or project on each day. Don’t try to review / learn everything. Spending the whole week mastering CSS is better than getting half way through 4 different walkthroughs / tutorials.

### What support can I expect during Lab Week?
During lab week coaches are generally not available as they are conducting their own retrospective and planning activities related to developing the course and related materials.  To help with planning and retrospectives coaches will usually be available for Monday 9am and Friday 9am stand-ups, as well as spending significant time with students on the Friday before lab week helping the students plan lab week activities.

###Suggested Structure:
#### Monday --> Tuesday
Prior to Lab Week, coaches will have you choose from 1 of 3 options:
- **Review**: pick up a project or challenge from the first 5 weeks of the course and redo it.
- **Refresh**: pick a project of challenge from the first 5 weeks and reimagine it in a new context. For example, *Battleships Web* could become *TicTacToe* Web. The idea here it to cover similar concepts in a new domain.
- **Greenfield Project**: Work on an entirely new concept. This will require you to go through a design process, think about what your MVP is, and so on.

Coaches will prescribe groups of 4 based on the above, and attend student-led standups at 9:30 and 2:15. Otherwise, use alumni helpers and slack-overflow to get your issues resolved.

#### Wednesday --> Thursday
:construction: *Junior Makerthon* :construction:

###Tips:
Review the [escalation process](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/master/pills/escalation_process.md) and use [slack-overflow](https://github.com/makersacademy/slack-overflow) to get issues resolved.

Commit message:

Updated with note about pairs

lab_week/lab_week.md, after:

Lab Week
========

### What is Lab Week?
Lab Week is one of the most important weeks at Makers Academy. It marks a transition from the first half of the course, through which students follow a tutorial or spec set out for them by coaches, to the second half of the course, which is much more student-led. It is a time to review, in a self-directed way, the material covered thus far, or to pick up a technology you find interesting.

### How should I approach Lab Week?
It is entirely up to you how you approach Lab Week. That said, we strongly recommend the following:
- That you be at Makers Academy from **9AM, Monday through Friday**.
- That you work in a team of 4 or 5, pair with members of your team, and run twice-daily stand-ups within your team. Again, writing great code is a social activity. Create private rooms on Slack to stay coordinated.
- That you plan to focus on a particular topic or project on each day. Don’t try to review / learn everything. Spending the whole week mastering CSS is better than getting half way through 4 different walkthroughs / tutorials.

### What support can I expect during Lab Week?
During lab week coaches are generally not available as they are conducting their own retrospective and planning activities related to developing the course and related materials.  To help with planning and retrospectives coaches will usually be available for Monday 9am and Friday 9am stand-ups, as well as spending significant time with students on the Friday before lab week helping the students plan lab week activities.

###Suggested Structure:
#### Monday --> Tuesday
Prior to Lab Week, coaches will have you choose from 1 of 3 options:
- **Review**: pick up a project or challenge from the first 5 weeks of the course and redo it.
- **Refresh**: pick a project of challenge from the first 5 weeks and reimagine it in a new context. For example, *Battleships Web* could become *TicTacToe* Web. The idea here it to cover similar concepts in a new domain.
- **Greenfield Project**: Work on an entirely new concept. This will require you to go through a design process, think about what your MVP is, and so on.

Coaches will prescribe groups of 4 based on the above, and attend student-led standups at 9:30 and 2:15. The groups of 4 are composed of 2 pairs. Please swap pairs between Monday and Tuesday.

#### Wednesday --> Thursday
:construction: *Junior Makerthon* :construction:

###Tips:
Review the [escalation process](https://github.com/makersacademy/course/blob/master/pills/escalation_process.md) and use [slack-overflow](https://github.com/makersacademy/slack-overflow) to get issues resolved.
