individual_challenges_with_reviews/README.md, before:

# Individual technical challenges

### Goals for the week

Ask yourself the same two questions:

* Are you having fun?
* Are you a better developer than you were yesterday?

#### Primary goal

By the end of the week, the goal is to be able to answer "yes" to the week's primary question:

* **Can you solve a challenging technical problem by writing well crafted code?**

By "well crafted code", we mean code that is:

* Well-tested.
* Easy to read.
* Easy to change.

#### Secondary goals

By the end of the week, you should:

* Feel more confident in your ability to complete a tech test.
* Have developed a structured process that uses TDD and OO design skills to solve complex problems.

### Structure of the week

#### Tech tests

1. Get started on Monday at 9.30am.

2. Start by reading the [tech test guide](https://github.com/makersacademy/jobhunters/blob/master/pills/tech_test_guide.md).

3. Start working on the [Money Tracker](https://github.com/makersacademy/money_tracker_tech_test/blob/master/README.md) tech test.

4. Work on the tech test until you've completed the features.

5. Use the [tech test guide](https://github.com/makersacademy/jobhunters/blob/master/pills/tech_test_guide.md) to review your code and repo.

6. Submit a pull request.  (If you're stuck or want feedback, feel free to submit a pull request before you complete the features.)

7. Your coach will review your code and send their thoughts back to you ASAP.

8. Refactor your code, based on your coach's suggestions.  (That is, the suggestions you agree with!)

9. Keep going in this refactor/review loop until you and your coach agree you've got most of the learning out of the tech test.  At that point, your coach will send you the URL for the next tech test.  Start working on it and return to step 2.

#### Final projects

During the week, you'll have a session where you think of ideas for final projects, and your coach will announce your final project teams.

### Processes

This week is especially good for focusing on the question, "Am I a better developer than I was yesterday?"

### Language

You can use Ruby or JavaScript for any of the challenges.

### Challenges

Enjoy these challenges - they are either adapted or directly copied from actual tech tests that employers send out. You will find other tech tests in this folder that you can attempt over the weekend or after graduation.

### Schedule

* [Onsite](../sequence/onsite/week10.md)
* [Remote](../sequence/remote/week10.md)

### Resources

* [Tech test checklist](https://github.com/makersacademy/jobhunters/blob/master/pills/tech_test_guide.md)
* [The Coding Dojo Handbook (recommended reading post-course)](https://leanpub.com/codingdojohandbook)

Commit message:

Add note to ping coach

individual_challenges_with_reviews/README.md, after:

# Individual technical challenges

### Goals for the week

Ask yourself the same two questions:

* Are you having fun?
* Are you a better developer than you were yesterday?

#### Primary goal

By the end of the week, the goal is to be able to answer "yes" to the week's primary question:

* **Can you solve a challenging technical problem by writing well crafted code?**

By "well crafted code", we mean code that is:

* Well-tested.
* Easy to read.
* Easy to change.

#### Secondary goals

By the end of the week, you should:

* Feel more confident in your ability to complete a tech test.
* Have developed a structured process that uses TDD and OO design skills to solve complex problems.

### Structure of the week

#### Tech tests

1. Get started on Monday at 9.30am.

2. Start by reading the [tech test guide](https://github.com/makersacademy/jobhunters/blob/master/pills/tech_test_guide.md).

3. Start working on the [Money Tracker](https://github.com/makersacademy/money_tracker_tech_test/blob/master/README.md) tech test.

4. Work on the tech test until you've completed the features.

5. Use the [tech test guide](https://github.com/makersacademy/jobhunters/blob/master/pills/tech_test_guide.md) to review your code and repo.

6. Submit a pull request.  (If you're stuck or want feedback, feel free to submit a pull request before you complete the features.)

7. Ping your coach to tell them you've submitted a pull request.

8. Your coach will review your code and send their thoughts back to you ASAP.

9. Refactor your code, based on your coach's suggestions.  (That is, the suggestions you agree with!)

10. Keep going in this refactor/review loop until you and your coach agree you've got most of the learning out of the tech test.  At that point, your coach will send you the URL for the next tech test.  Start working on it and return to step 2.

#### Final projects

During the week, you'll have a session where you think of ideas for final projects, and your coach will announce your final project teams.

### Processes

This week is especially good for focusing on the question, "Am I a better developer than I was yesterday?"

### Language

You can use Ruby or JavaScript for any of the challenges.

### Challenges

Enjoy these challenges - they are either adapted or directly copied from actual tech tests that employers send out. You will find other tech tests in this folder that you can attempt over the weekend or after graduation.

### Schedule

* [Onsite](../sequence/onsite/week10.md)
* [Remote](../sequence/remote/week10.md)

### Resources

* [Tech test checklist](https://github.com/makersacademy/jobhunters/blob/master/pills/tech_test_guide.md)
* [The Coding Dojo Handbook (recommended reading post-course)](https://leanpub.com/codingdojohandbook)
