bookmark_manager/walkthroughs/01.md, before:

# Walkthrough - Creating User Stories

[Back to Challenge](../01_creating_user_stories.md)

The precise details of the user stories are up to you. Here's our go:

```
As a time-pressed user
So that I can quickly go to web sites I regularly visit
I would like to see a list of links on the homepage
```

Here's what I came up with as a domain model:

```
╔════════════╗         .all         ╔════════════╗
║            ║--------------------->║            ║
║ Controller ║   [array of links]   ║    Link    ║
║            ║<---------------------║            ║
╚════════════╝                      ╚════════════╝
```

- When the user visits the index page, their browser sends a message to a controller we built. (this interaction is not pictured)
- When the controller gets the request, it asks the `Link` class to give it all the links, i.e. the controller asks for `Link.all`.
- The `Link` class goes and gets the links from the database somehow, and gives back all the links in an array to the controller.
- The controller renders the array of links to a webpage, which it sends as a response to the user (this interaction is not pictured)

So, it feels like the first things we need are a Controller and a Link class.


[Next Challenge](../02_setting_up_a_web_project.md)

Commit message:

Do a bunch of simplifying
* Links -> Bookmarks
* Remove the insertion of three bookmarks always (add them in the tests
instead)
* Reword a lot of the walkthroughs and scaffolds and hints
* Reorder so Bookmark Listing -> Creation -> Update & Delete all happens
**before** extracting a DatabaseConnection object :construction:
* Use the returned hash from PG instead of mapping to strings straight
away :construction: (makes it more obvious why you should wrap the
return hash in an object).
* Better exemplar now at http://github.com/sjmog/bookmark_manager_2
(commits have not been copied across to this walkthrough)

bookmark_manager/walkthroughs/01.md, after:

# Walkthrough - Creating User Stories

[Back to Challenge](../01_creating_user_stories.md)

The precise details of the user stories are up to you. Here's our go:

```
As a time-pressed user
So that I can quickly go to web sites I regularly visit
I would like to see a list of bookmarks on the homepage
```

Here's what I came up with as a domain model:

```
╔════════════╗         .all         ╔════════════╗
║            ║--------------------->║            ║
║ Controller ║ [array of bookmarks] ║  Bookmark  ║
║            ║<---------------------║            ║
╚════════════╝                      ╚════════════╝
```

- When the user visits the index page, their browser sends a message to a controller we built. (this interaction is not pictured)
- When the controller gets the request, it asks the `Bookmark` class to give it all the bookmarks, i.e. the controller asks for `Bookmark.all`.
- The `Bookmark` class goes and gets the bookmarks from the database somehow, and gives back all the bookmarks in an array to the controller.
- The controller renders the array of bookmarks to a webpage, which it sends as a response to the user (this interaction is not pictured)

So, it feels like the first things we need are a Controller and a Bookmark class.

> That's enough design for now. We should aim to start coding sooner rather than later.

[Next Challenge](../02_setting_up_a_web_project.md)
