bookmark_manager/walkthroughs/03.md, before:

# Walkthrough - Viewing Bookmarks

[Back to Challenge](../03_viewing_bookmarks.md)

We're going to follow a complete TDD cycle for this feature. That is:

1. Write a failing feature test.
2. Solve the feature test in the simplest possible way.
3. Use the Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern to refactor our solution.

### 1. Failing Feature Test

Now we have a working app, let's add the following feature:

```
As a time-pressed user
So that I can quickly go to web sites I regularly visit
I would like to see a list of bookmarks
```

Let's write a feature test for this. A reasonable first step is that a user can visit the `/bookmarks` page, and see a bookmark:

```ruby
# in spec/features/viewing_bookmarks_spec.rb

feature 'Viewing bookmarks' do
  scenario 'A user can see bookmarks' do
    visit('/bookmarks')

    expect(page).to have_content "http://www.makersacademy.com"
    expect(page).to have_content "http://www.destroyallsoftware.com"
    expect(page).to have_content "http://www.google.com"
  end
end
```

Run the test to make sure it gives the expected fail.

### 2. Passing in the simplest possible way

We already built a controller – it's in `app.rb` – and it already has a `/` route:

```ruby
# in app.rb

require 'sinatra/base'

class BookmarkManager < Sinatra::Base
  get '/' do
    'Bookmark Manager'
  end

  run! if app_file == $0
end
```

Let's add a `/bookmarks` route to solve this failing test as simply as we can:

```ruby
get '/bookmarks' do
  bookmarks = [
            "http://www.makersacademy.com",
            "http://www.destroyallsoftware.com",
            "http://facebook.com"
           ]

  bookmarks.join
end
```

Run the feature test using `rspec features` – it passes.

### 3. Refactoring to MVC

Now that we have a passing test, we can refactor. We're going to refactor **using Model View Controller (MVC) conventions**.

At the moment, our app isn't MVC: it's just C. We're setting up some data (`bookmarks`), acting on that data, and rendering that data as a string, all in the controller.

Arguably this should be split up in the following way:

```

| Component   | Responsibility                                | Refactor                                |
|------------ |---------------------------------------------  |---------------------------------------- |
| Model       | Encapsulate logic with relevant data          | Encapsulate bookmark data in a class    |
| View        | Display the result to a user                  | Show the bookmark data in a list        |
| Controller  | Get data from the model and put in the view   | Render bookmark data into to the view   |
```

First, let's make the controller–view interaction follow the MVC convention. That is: the controller combines data (the bookmarks) with the view (an erb template):

```ruby
get '/bookmarks' do
  @bookmarks = [
            "http://www.makersacademy.com",
            "http://www.destroyallsoftware.com",
            "http://www.google.com"
           ]

  erb :'bookmarks/index'
end
```

And let's write a view that handles the bookmarks:

```html
<!-- in views/bookmarks/index.erb -->

<ul>
  <% @bookmarks.each do |bookmark| %>
    <li><%= bookmark %></li>
  <% end %>
</ul>
```

Second, let's make the controller-model interaction follow the MVC convention. That is: the controller gets data (the bookmarks) from the model.

Let's remind ourselves of the sketched domain model:

![Bookmark Manager domain model](../images/bookmark_manager_1.png)

My first step when solving these sorts of tests is to imagine that my controller is a kind of Integration Test. That is, I can play around in it to figure out what sort of code I want. Do I want this:

```ruby
get '/bookmarks' do
  @bookmarks = Bookmark.all
  erb :'bookmarks/index'
end
```

Or this:

```ruby
get '/bookmarks' do
  @bookmarks = Bookmark.get(:all)
  erb :'bookmarks/index'
end
```

Or this:

```ruby
get '/bookmarks' do
  @bookmarks = Bookmark.to_a
  erb :'bookmarks/index'
end
```

Or some other thing?

I'll go with my original guess, and build a `Bookmark` class that has a class method `.all`. Let's do it test-first, of course:

```ruby
# in spec/bookmark_spec.rb

require 'bookmark'

describe Bookmark do
  describe '.all' do
    it 'returns all bookmarks' do
      bookmarks = Bookmark.all

      expect(bookmarks).to include("http://www.makersacademy.com")
      expect(bookmarks).to include("http://www.destroyallsoftware.com")
      expect(bookmarks).to include("http://www.google.com")
    end
  end
end
```

Run this test to make sure you get the expected fail. And here's a class that solves this failing test:

```ruby
# in lib/bookmark.rb

class Bookmark
  def self.all
    [
      "http://www.makersacademy.com",
      "http://www.destroyallsoftware.com",
      "http://www.google.com"
     ]
  end
end
```

Now that we have this class, we can require it in `app.rb`, which becomes:

```ruby
# in app.rb

require 'sinatra/base'
require './lib/bookmark'

class BookmarkManager < Sinatra::Base
  get '/bookmarks' do
    @bookmarks = Bookmark.all
    erb :index
  end

  run! if app_file == $0
end
```

That's the refactor over.

[Here's](https://github.com/soph-g/bookmark-manager-example/commit/47ae4ca2547ec04af56002a893f7f8e24cfed63d) a commit of this stage.

> One good sign that this is a sensible refactor is that the feature test for viewing bookmarks and the unit test for `Bookmark` are very similar. When you think about it, they're doing similar things: presenting Bookmark data to two different interfaces (feature test presents to the browser interface, unit test presents to the controller interface). This sort of simple similarity across the two interfaces feels 'right'.

## Summary

1. We wrote a failing test.
2. We solved the failing test with some easy code (an array in the controller).
3. We refactored to an MVC pattern, implementing a view and a model called `Bookmark`, including writing a unit test for `Bookmark`.
4. We used a [RESTful](../pills/rest.md) route


> We'll basically be repeating these steps throughout the project. The big takeaway here is: move in a small steps, write code that works, and refactor each time. The two biggest mistakes we see are when devs try to refactor too early (i.e. "I know what this design should look like, why should I write the easy stuff first?") and when devs fail to refactor at all (i.e. "I'll refactor this later when I have some more to work with."). Avoid both _premature refactoring_ and _refactoring later_: both lead to ruin.

[Next Challenge](../04_setting_up_a_database.md)

Commit message:

Bookmark manager feedback changes (#908)
* fixes broken link in step 3

* removes nitrous guide for setting up postgres

* adds a link and text to explain class methods

* adds a link to the domain modelling workshop from week 2

* corrects code error in step 3

* moves validating bookmarks to step 14

* splits step 12 into two steps

* updates test code to match walkthrough guidance

bookmark_manager/walkthroughs/03.md, after:

# Walkthrough - Viewing Bookmarks

[Back to Challenge](../03_viewing_bookmarks.md)

We're going to follow a complete TDD cycle for this feature. That is:

1. Write a failing feature test.
2. Solve the feature test in the simplest possible way.
3. Use the Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern to refactor our solution.

### 1. Failing Feature Test

Now we have a working app, let's add the following feature:

```
As a time-pressed user
So that I can quickly go to web sites I regularly visit
I would like to see a list of bookmarks
```

Let's write a feature test for this. A reasonable first step is that a user can visit the `/bookmarks` page, and see a bookmark:

```ruby
# in spec/features/viewing_bookmarks_spec.rb

feature 'Viewing bookmarks' do
  scenario 'A user can see bookmarks' do
    visit('/bookmarks')

    expect(page).to have_content "http://www.makersacademy.com"
    expect(page).to have_content "http://www.destroyallsoftware.com"
    expect(page).to have_content "http://www.google.com"
  end
end
```

Run the test to make sure it gives the expected fail.

### 2. Passing in the simplest possible way

We already built a controller – it's in `app.rb` – and it already has a `/` route:

```ruby
# in app.rb

require 'sinatra/base'

class BookmarkManager < Sinatra::Base
  get '/' do
    'Bookmark Manager'
  end

  run! if app_file == $0
end
```

Let's add a `/bookmarks` route to solve this failing test as simply as we can:

```ruby
get '/bookmarks' do
  bookmarks = [
            "http://www.makersacademy.com",
            "http://www.destroyallsoftware.com",
            "http://facebook.com"
           ]

  bookmarks.join
end
```

Run the feature test using `rspec features` – it passes.

### 3. Refactoring to MVC

Now that we have a passing test, we can refactor. We're going to refactor **using Model View Controller (MVC) conventions**.

At the moment, our app isn't MVC: it's just C. We're setting up some data (`bookmarks`), acting on that data, and rendering that data as a string, all in the controller.

Arguably this should be split up in the following way:

```

| Component   | Responsibility                                | Refactor                                |
|------------ |---------------------------------------------  |---------------------------------------- |
| Model       | Encapsulate logic with relevant data          | Encapsulate bookmark data in a class    |
| View        | Display the result to a user                  | Show the bookmark data in a list        |
| Controller  | Get data from the model and put in the view   | Render bookmark data into to the view   |
```

First, let's make the controller–view interaction follow the MVC convention. That is: the controller combines data (the bookmarks) with the view (an erb template):

```ruby
get '/bookmarks' do
  @bookmarks = [
            "http://www.makersacademy.com",
            "http://www.destroyallsoftware.com",
            "http://www.google.com"
           ]

  erb :'bookmarks/index'
end
```

And let's write a view that handles the bookmarks:

```html
<!-- in views/bookmarks/index.erb -->

<ul>
  <% @bookmarks.each do |bookmark| %>
    <li><%= bookmark %></li>
  <% end %>
</ul>
```

Second, let's make the controller-model interaction follow the MVC convention. That is: the controller gets data (the bookmarks) from the model.

Let's remind ourselves of the sketched domain model:

![Bookmark Manager domain model](../images/bookmark_manager_1.png)

My first step when solving these sorts of tests is to imagine that my controller is a kind of Integration Test. That is, I can play around in it to figure out what sort of code I want. Do I want this:

```ruby
get '/bookmarks' do
  @bookmarks = Bookmark.all
  erb :'bookmarks/index'
end
```

Or this:

```ruby
get '/bookmarks' do
  @bookmarks = Bookmark.get(:all)
  erb :'bookmarks/index'
end
```

Or this:

```ruby
get '/bookmarks' do
  @bookmarks = Bookmark.to_a
  erb :'bookmarks/index'
end
```

Or some other thing?

> In all of these options, the method to retrieve the bookmarks is being called on the `Bookmark` class. This is because we don't want to create a new instance of a `bookmark` just yet. You can read more about the difference between a class method and an instance method [here](http://www.railstips.org/blog/archives/2009/05/11/class-and-instance-methods-in-ruby/)

I'll go with my original guess, and build a `Bookmark` class that has a class method `.all`. Let's do it test-first, of course:

```ruby
# in spec/bookmark_spec.rb

require 'bookmark'

describe Bookmark do
  describe '.all' do
    it 'returns all bookmarks' do
      bookmarks = Bookmark.all

      expect(bookmarks).to include("http://www.makersacademy.com")
      expect(bookmarks).to include("http://www.destroyallsoftware.com")
      expect(bookmarks).to include("http://www.google.com")
    end
  end
end
```

Run this test to make sure you get the expected fail. And here's a class that solves this failing test:

```ruby
# in lib/bookmark.rb

class Bookmark
  def self.all
    [
      "http://www.makersacademy.com",
      "http://www.destroyallsoftware.com",
      "http://www.google.com"
     ]
  end
end
```

Now that we have this class, we can require it in `app.rb`, which becomes:

```ruby
# in app.rb

require 'sinatra/base'
require './lib/bookmark'

class BookmarkManager < Sinatra::Base
  get '/bookmarks' do
    @bookmarks = Bookmark.all
    erb :'bookmarks/index'
  end

  run! if app_file == $0
end
```

That's the refactor over.

[Here's](https://github.com/soph-g/bookmark-manager-example/commit/47ae4ca2547ec04af56002a893f7f8e24cfed63d) a commit of this stage.

> One good sign that this is a sensible refactor is that the feature test for viewing bookmarks and the unit test for `Bookmark` are very similar. When you think about it, they're doing similar things: presenting Bookmark data to two different interfaces (feature test presents to the browser interface, unit test presents to the controller interface). This sort of simple similarity across the two interfaces feels 'right'.

## Summary

1. We wrote a failing test.
2. We solved the failing test with some easy code (an array in the controller).
3. We refactored to an MVC pattern, implementing a view and a model called `Bookmark`, including writing a unit test for `Bookmark`.
4. We used a [RESTful](../../pills/rest.md) route.


> We'll basically be repeating these steps throughout the project. The big takeaway here is: move in a small steps, write code that works, and refactor each time. The two biggest mistakes we see are when devs try to refactor too early (i.e. "I know what this design should look like, why should I write the easy stuff first?") and when devs fail to refactor at all (i.e. "I'll refactor this later when I have some more to work with."). Avoid both _premature refactoring_ and _refactoring later_: both lead to ruin.

[Next Challenge](../04_setting_up_a_database.md)
