bookmark_manager/walkthroughs/04.md, before:

# Walkthrough - Creating Your First Table

[Back to Challenge](../04_creating_your_first_table.md)

## 1. Connecting to PostgreSQL

Assuming you have psql installed and working, connect to your pool of databases like so:

```sh
$> psql
```

Which should give you a command prompt similar to this one:

```
psql (9.3.5)
Type "help" for help.

admin=#
```

`psql` has two 'groups' of commands: 

- Commands beginning with a `\` are `psql`-specific commands (e.g. connecting to databases using `\c`). 
- Everything else is part of SQL (e.g. `SELECT * FROM ...`), so can be used with any SQL-based Relational Database.

Let's have a look at the existing databases:

```
$ \l
```

## 2. Creating a database for Bookmark Manager

Let's create a new database, and call it `bookmark_manager`:

```
admin=# CREATE DATABASE bookmark_manager;
```

## 3. Connecting to the database

We can now connect to the newly created database using `psql`'s `\c` command:

```
admin=# \c bookmark_manager;
```

And inspect the existing list of tables:

```
admin=# \dt
```

We should get something along the lines of `No relations found.`. That makes sense: we haven't built anything in this database yet.

## 4. Creating a links table

Data is stored inside **rows** of database **tables**: 

![A database table.](http://www.plus2net.com/sql_tutorial/images/table.jpg)

The structure and contents of these tables tell you everything about what that data is. Tables are a very fast way to look up data. To make them even faster, every row in a table is normally given a unique identifier: an 'ID'.

> In a **Relational Database** like PostgreSQL, the structure and contents also tell us about what data relates to other data. More on that later.

Tables tend to map onto objects in our program that we want to persist. We're going to make a `links` table that will store links from our application. We can use SQL commands from `psql`:

```
bookmark_manager=# CREATE TABLE links(id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, url VARCHAR(60));
```

Now inspect the list of tables again, using `\dt`. You should see one with the name `links`.

[Next Challenge](../05_manipulating_table_data.md)

Commit message:

Do a bunch of simplifying
* Links -> Bookmarks
* Remove the insertion of three bookmarks always (add them in the tests
instead)
* Reword a lot of the walkthroughs and scaffolds and hints
* Reorder so Bookmark Listing -> Creation -> Update & Delete all happens
**before** extracting a DatabaseConnection object :construction:
* Use the returned hash from PG instead of mapping to strings straight
away :construction: (makes it more obvious why you should wrap the
return hash in an object).
* Better exemplar now at http://github.com/sjmog/bookmark_manager_2
(commits have not been copied across to this walkthrough)

bookmark_manager/walkthroughs/04.md, after:

# Walkthrough - Creating Your First Table

[Back to Challenge](../04_creating_your_first_table.md)

## 1. Connecting to PostgreSQL

Assuming you have psql installed and working, connect to your pool of databases like so:

```sh
$> psql
```

Which should give you a command prompt similar to this one:

```
psql (9.3.5)
Type "help" for help.

admin=#
```

`psql` has two 'groups' of commands: 

- Commands beginning with a `\` are `psql`-specific commands (e.g. connecting to databases using `\c`). 
- Everything else is part of SQL (e.g. `SELECT * FROM ...`), so can be used with any SQL-based Relational Database.

Let's have a look at the existing databases:

```
$ \l
```

## 2. Creating a database for Bookmark Manager

Let's create a new database, and call it `bookmark_manager`:

```
admin=# CREATE DATABASE bookmark_manager;
```

## 3. Connecting to the database

We can now connect to the newly created database using `psql`'s `\c` command:

```
admin=# \c bookmark_manager;
```

And inspect the existing list of tables:

```
admin=# \dt
```

We should get something along the lines of `No relations found.`. That makes sense: we haven't built anything in this database yet.

## 4. Creating a `bookmarks` table

Data is stored inside **rows** of database **tables**: 

![A database table.](http://www.plus2net.com/sql_tutorial/images/table.jpg)

The structure and contents of these tables tell you everything about what that data is. Tables are a very fast way to look up data. To make them even faster, every row in a table is normally given a unique identifier: an 'ID'.

> In a **Relational Database** like PostgreSQL, the structure and contents also tell us about what data relates to other data. More on that later.

Tables tend to map onto objects in our program that we want to persist. We're going to make a `bookmarks` table that will store bookmarks from our application. We can use SQL commands from `psql`:

```
bookmark_manager=# CREATE TABLE bookmarks(id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, url VARCHAR(60));
```

Now inspect the list of tables again, using `\dt`. You should see one with the name `bookmarks`.

[Next Challenge](../05_manipulating_table_data.md)
