# Walkthrough - Creating Your First Table

[Back to Challenge](../04_creating_your_first_table.md)

> The dollar symbol represents a command prompt. **Don't actually type the dollar symbol!**

Assuming you have psql installed and working, connect to your pool of databases like so:

    $ psql

Which should give you a command prompt:

    psql (9.3.5)
    Type "help" for help.

    admin=#

`psql` has two 'groups' of commands: 

- Commands beginning with a `\` are `psql`-specific commands (e.g. connecting to databases using `\c`). 
- Everything else is part of SQL (e.g. `SELECT * FROM ...`), so can be used with any SQL-based Relational Database.

> What other Relational Databases exist?

Let's have a look at the existing databases:

    $ \l

You probably won't have any existing databases. Let's create a new one, and call it `database_play`:

    $ CREATE DATABASE database_play;

We can now connect to the newly created database:

    $ \c database_play;

And inspect the existing list of tables:

    $ \dt

    No relations found.

That makes sense: we haven't built anything in this database yet.

Data is stored inside database **tables**. Relational databases are made up of many such tables. As you'll see, these tables tend to map onto objects in our program that we want to persist. Here's how we create a table for storing data about students. We use SQL commands:

    CREATE TABLE students(
      id serial PRIMARY KEY,
      name varchar(50)
    );

Now if we inspect the list of tables again (see above) we should see one with the name students.

[next challenge](../05_manipulating_table_data.md)
