bookmark_manager/walkthroughs/05.md, before:

# Walkthrough - Creating Your First Table

[Back to Challenge](../05_creating_your_first_table.md)

## 1. Connecting to PostgreSQL

Assuming you have psql installed and working, connect to your pool of databases like so:

```sh
$> psql
```

Which should give you a command prompt similar to this one:

```
psql (9.3.5)
Type "help" for help.

admin=#
```

`psql` has two 'groups' of commands:

- Commands beginning with a `\` are `psql`-specific commands (e.g. connecting to databases using `\c`).
- Everything else is part of SQL (e.g. `SELECT * FROM ...`), so can be used with any SQL-based Relational Database.

Let's have a look at the existing databases:

```
$ \l
```

## 2. Creating a database for Bookmark Manager

Let's create a new database, and call it `bookmark_manager`:

```
admin=# CREATE DATABASE bookmark_manager;
```

## 3. Connecting to the database

We can now connect to the newly created database using `psql`'s `\c` command:

```
admin=# \c bookmark_manager;
```

And inspect the existing list of tables:

```
admin=# \dt
```

We should get something along the lines of `No relations found.`. That makes sense: we haven't built anything in this database yet.

## 4. Creating a `bookmarks` table

Data is stored inside **rows** of database **tables**:

![A database table.](http://www.plus2net.com/sql_tutorial/images/table.jpg)

The structure and contents of these tables tell you everything about what that data is. Tables are a very fast way to look up data. To make them even faster, every row in a table is normally given a unique identifier: an 'ID'.

> In a **Relational Database** like PostgreSQL, the structure and contents also tell us about what data relates to other data. More on that later.

Tables tend to map onto objects in our program that we want to persist. We're going to make a `bookmarks` table that will store bookmarks from our application. We can use SQL commands from `psql`:

```
bookmark_manager=# CREATE TABLE bookmarks(id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, url VARCHAR(60));
```

Now inspect the list of tables again, using `\dt`. You should see one with the name `bookmarks`.

[Next Challenge](../06_manipulating_table_data.md)

Commit message:

Bookmark manager oct update (#910)
* removes incorrect instruction in map step 4

* introduces a DM migration record to step 5

* adds db setup instructions note to step 9

* adds database migration file to step 10

* adds persisted data check and db migration to step 11

* minor corrections

* adding persisted data check and db migration to step 16

* adds reference to db migrations and persisted helper to step 18

* adds reference to ORM into step 14

* changes to improve flow of walkthrough

* rewrites walkthrough to improve flow

* update to step 15 to reflect new place in challenge

* corrects persisted_data check in step 11

* minor changes in 16 and 18 to use persisted data help consistently

* corrects minor errors in steps 10 and 13

bookmark_manager/walkthroughs/05.md, after:

# Walkthrough - Creating Your First Table

[Back to Challenge](../05_creating_your_first_table.md)

## 1. Connecting to PostgreSQL

Assuming you have psql installed and working, connect to your pool of databases like so:

```sh
$> psql
```

Which should give you a command prompt similar to this one:

```
psql (9.3.5)
Type "help" for help.

admin=#
```

`psql` has two 'groups' of commands:

- Commands beginning with a `\` are `psql`-specific commands (e.g. connecting to databases using `\c`).
- Everything else is part of SQL (e.g. `SELECT * FROM ...`), so can be used with any SQL-based Relational Database.

Let's have a look at the existing databases:

```
$ \l
```

## 2. Creating a database for Bookmark Manager

Let's create a new database, and call it `bookmark_manager`:

```
admin=# CREATE DATABASE bookmark_manager;
```

## 3. Connecting to the database

We can now connect to the newly created database using `psql`'s `\c` command:

```
admin=# \c bookmark_manager;
```

And inspect the existing list of tables:

```
admin=# \dt
```

We should get something along the lines of `No relations found.`. That makes sense: we haven't built anything in this database yet.

## 4. Creating a `bookmarks` table

Data is stored inside **rows** of database **tables**:

![A database table.](http://www.plus2net.com/sql_tutorial/images/table.jpg)

The structure and contents of these tables tell you everything about what that data is. Tables are a very fast way to look up data. To make them even faster, every row in a table is normally given a unique identifier: an 'ID'.

> In a **Relational Database** like PostgreSQL, the structure and contents also tell us about what data relates to other data. More on that later.

Tables tend to map onto objects in our program that we want to persist. We're going to make a `bookmarks` table that will store bookmarks from our application. We can use SQL commands from `psql`:

```
bookmark_manager=# CREATE TABLE bookmarks(id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, url VARCHAR(60));
```

Now inspect the list of tables again, using `\dt`. You should see one with the name `bookmarks`.

## 5. Documenting the database setup

It's a good idea to keep a record of how the database has been setup, both for your future reference and so that anyone contributing to your project knows how to setup the database.

First lets create a directory for the database setup called `db`, and a sub-directory within it, `migrations`.

```
- db/
  - migrations/
```

Now let's create a file called `01_create_bookmarks_table.sql` in the `migrations` directory, to record the SQL queries we ran to create the `bookmarks` table:

```bash
# in migrations/01_create_bookmarks_table.sql
CREATE TABLE bookmarks(id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, url VARCHAR(60));

```

In this case the extenstion `.sql` is being used to indicate that the text inside is a SQL query.

This is a start, but it's not enough to simply record the SQL queries, the README needs to be updated with instructions on how to use these. Anyone needing to setup the database from scratch will need to do the following things:

1. Connect to `psql`
2. Create the database using the `psql` command `CREATE DATABASE bookmark_manager;`
3. Connect to the database using the `pqsl` command `\c bookmark_manager;`
4. Run the query we have saved in the file `01_create_bookmarks_table.sql`

Make sure your README is updated with clear instructions to guide the developer through these steps.

[Next Challenge](../06_manipulating_table_data.md)
