# Walkthrough - Using Data Mapper

[Back to Challenge](../06_using_data_mapper.md)

Keep your psql prompt open but open a new tab in Terminal. Create a Gemfile and add the following ORM gems:

```ruby
gem 'data_mapper'
gem 'dm-postgres-adapter'
```

Install the gems using `bundle install` so we can use them inside our project.

Now, let's use the ORM we just installed to interact with a database from inside `irb` (or `pry`). First, we'll start `irb`:

```sh
$> irb
```

Now, let's `require` all the ORM gems we'll need to interact with the database:

> What's an ORM again?

```
> require 'dm-migrations'
> require 'data_mapper'
> require 'dm-postgres-adapter'
```

While we're doing setup, let's ask DataMapper - our ORM - to print any logs out to the console:

```
> DataMapper::Logger.new($stdout, :debug)
```

And finally, let's ask DataMapper to connect to our `database_play` database:

```
> DataMapper.setup(:default, "postgres://localhost/database_play")
```

> Why is the address we're connecting to `postgres://localhost/<database name>`? How is this format similar to the `http://<domain name>` we're familiar with?

Now let's create a `Student` class (within `irb`) and mixin some DataMapper powers so this plain old Ruby class can interact with the database. While we're defining the class, we'll also tell it which columns will exist in our database table (DataMapper uses the `property` method to do this):

```ruby
class Student
  # Give the class some database-interaction superpowers
  include DataMapper::Resource

  # Tell the class which columns exist in the student table
  property :id,     Serial
  property :name,   String
end
```

So we've created a class that has extra abilities endowed by DataMapper: namely, the ability to persist data to the database. We now need to have DataMapper [check the validity](http://www.rubydoc.info/github/datamapper/dm-core/DataMapper/Model#finalize-instance_method) of the classes as we've declared them, using `finalize`:

```
> DataMapper.finalize
```

**WARNING: MAGIC AHEAD.** DataMapper has checked that everything is A-OK in our classes: we haven't made any typos, and we've used all the methods DataMapper gave use (like `property()`) exactly as we're meant to. Good!

Note, though, that _we haven't made a `students` table yet_. We know that Databases are made up of tables, and tables are made up of columns (attributes) and rows (data). Before we can make our `Student` class interact with a database, we need to make a `students` table. Before, we did that using `psql`. DataMapper will **MAGICALLY** read your class names, and _build tables for you_ that correspond with the classes. This magic is called a **database migration**.

Here's how you migrate a database _without losing any data that's already there_:

```
> DataMapper.auto_upgrade!
```

Pow. Our ORM just read our Ruby classes - which it calls the **model layer** - and built tables, guessing table names from class names.

> What is the alternative method to `auto_upgrade!` that can result in data loss?

Now that we have a database table linked up to a Ruby class, we can add data to our database straight from Ruby:

```
> Student.create(name: "Lori")
```

> `create` is a method added to our `Student` by `DataMapper::Resource` (remember, we mixed it in above). How do you think it works? Can you diagram it? Could you roughly write your own `create` method in pseudocode?

The Logger we setup will give us a bunch of mostly uninteresting chatter, but it should include the line:

```psql
~ (0.001957) INSERT INTO "students" ("name") VALUES ('Lori') RETURNING "id"
```

So we've achieved exactly what we did before but in a single line of nice familiar Ruby. Hooray for Object Relational Maps!

We can also search for students, delete them, update them: anything we could do using SQL. But now, we only have to use Ruby. Other than building the initial database, we'll never have to touch SQL again. :tada:

```
> # .first is translated into an SQL query that gets the first student
> student = Student.first(name: 'Lori')
> student.destroy
~ (0.003726) DELETE FROM "students" WHERE "id" = 1
```

In the next challenge, you will learn a little more about the standard ways of interacting with a database.

[To the Next Challenge](../07_research_crud.md)
