# Walkthrough - Research CRUD

[Back to Challenge](../07_research_crud.md)

**C.R.U.D.** sounds like it should be an 80s punk band - but in Computer Science this acronym represents the four basic functions of [persistent storage](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Persistence_(computer_science)), and stands for **Create, Read, Update and Delete.** The **CRUD** concept applies across many different relational database systems. Here we'll look specifically at what CRUD means in the context of **SQL**.

**SQL** (pronounced "sequel") stands for **Structured Query Language.** It is the most common language used to communicate with modern databases, and there are a handful of basic commands that you need to know.

#### **C**reate

The SQL command associated with creation is `INSERT`. This command will create new [rows](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Row_%28database%29d) in a table. Let's update our `students` table with a single entry:

```SQL
INSERT INTO "students" (NAME) VALUES ( 'Garry Bernhardt');
```

There are several things to note here.

* Where the column names (fields) are declared, we omit `ID`. This is because the `ID` value is generated by SQL.
* When passing strings to populate the rows, we use single quotes. SQL typically reserves double quotes for table names.

We should have successfully created a new record in `students`, and the database has assigned it a sequential `id`.

#### **R**ead

The SQL command associated with Reading, is called `SELECT`. Let's check that the student was created as expected:

```SQL
SELECT * FROM students;
```
This asks the database to select _everything_ (*) from the table `students`.

```
 id |  name
----+--------
  1 | Garry Bernhardt
(1 row)
```

So we can see here that we have two columns (also called 'fields'): `id` and `name`, and one row (also called 'record' or 'tuple') with a value for each field. This shows us our table structure.

#### **U**pdate

We want to be able to change existing values in our database. We can use the `UPDATE` command for this by specifying the id of the entry.

```SQL
UPDATE "students" SET NAME = 'Garry Bernhardt' WHERE ID = 1;
```
```
UPDATE 1
```
Run another `SELECT` query to see if our changes have taken effect (`UPDATE 1` is a confirmation message).

```SQL
SELECT * FROM "students";
```
```
 id |      name
----+-----------------
  1 | Garry Bernhardt
(1 row)
```

#### **D**elete

To remove a row from a table, we use the `DELETE` command.

```SQL
DELETE FROM "students" WHERE ID = 1;
```
```
DELETE 1
```
Now let's inspect `students` again:

```SQL
SELECT * FROM "students";
```
```
 id | name
----+------
(0 rows)
```

[next challenge](../08_viewing_links.md)
