bookmark_manager/walkthroughs/09.md, before:

# Walkthrough – Setting up a Testing Environment

[Back to Challenge](../09_setting_up_a_testing_environment.md)

It's normal to have **multiple environments** in applications. These might include:

- A **development** environment that runs locally on your computer, so you can click around it and work on it.
- A **production** environment that runs remotely on someone else's computer, so other people on the internet can click around it.
- A **test** environment that runs locally on your computer whenever you run your tests. It comes into being especially for your tests, and disappears straight after your tests finish.

> There's also a **staging** environment, where your application runs remotely on someone else's computer, at a secret link so you can click around it to check it's all working right before you move it to production.

Each environment runs a whole version of your application. So far, we've been using the **development** and **testing** environments together: which has caused problems.

In this walkthrough, we will:

- Set up a database for our test environment.
- Set up an Environmental Variable to tell the application to start in the test environment (and use the test database) when we want it to.
- Write a script that sets up the testing environment before our tests run.
- Integrate the script with our test runner, RSpec, so we don't have to think about it any more.

> If you'd prefer to read through the diff for this step, head to [this commit](https://github.com/soph-g/bookmark-manager-example/commit/9e94edc83851a1095e448982c0b3d3fe95b042f1).

## Setting up a test database

For each environment, we will have our own database.

- The **production** database will contain 'real' data. For instance: Facebook's _production_ environment contains real-life users, posts, comments, likes, and so on.
- The **test** database will contain no data. This way, we can set up whatever data we need right before we run our tests.
- The **development** database will initially contain no data. If we run our application locally, we can add data to it.

To set up a test database, let's run `psql` and create a database with a `bookmarks` table:

```
$> psql
admin=# CREATE DATABASE "bookmark_manager_test";
admin=# CREATE TABLE bookmarks(id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, url VARCHAR(60));
```

Now, if we list databases (in `psql` or by looking in TablePlus), we'll see two databases for our application: `bookmark_manager`, and the new `bookmark_manager_test` database.

## Set up an Environment Variable to tell the application to use the test database when we run our tests

An **Environment Variable** is a special kind of constant: one that tells the application something about its current environment.

There are two things we need to do:

1. Set up the Environment Variable as `test` when we run our tests.
2. Set up the `Bookmark` model to use the `bookmark_manager` database when we are in the development environment, and the `bookmark_manager_test` database when we are in the test database.

### Setting up the Environment Variable

Sinatra is built on a technology called Rack. Rack provides Sinatra with a built-in variable, `ENV`. It's available anywhere in Sinatra. Take a look at it by printing it in any application request:

```ruby
get '/bookmarks' do
  # Print the ENV variable
  p ENV

  @bookmarks = Bookmark.all
  erb :index
end
```

When you visit `/bookmarks` (either by running your tests or by visiting the homepage in a browser), something like the following is printed to the logs:

```ruby
{"rvm_bin_path"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/bin", "TERM_PROGRAM"=>"Apple_Terminal", "GEM_HOME"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0", "TERM"=>"xterm-256color", "SHELL"=>"/bin/bash", "IRBRC"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.5.0/.irbrc", "TMPDIR"=>"/var/folders/4p/qbw72tbd0b7031yy5dx3q2pc0000gn/T/", "Apple_PubSub_Socket_Render"=>"/private/tmp/com.apple.launchd.KhmiOUg83a/Render", "TERM_PROGRAM_VERSION"=>"400", "OLDPWD"=>"/Users/sam/documents/code", "MY_RUBY_HOME"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.5.0", "TERM_SESSION_ID"=>"8F1ADFC0-EE57-4DC0-8283-459E9B3B2415", "USER"=>"sam", "_system_type"=>"Darwin", "rvm_path"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm", "SSH_AUTH_SOCK"=>"/private/tmp/com.apple.launchd.QhS0am2Gbs/Listeners", "rvm_prefix"=>"/Users/sam", "PATH"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0/bin:/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0@global/bin:/Users/sam/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.5.0/bin:/Users/sam/.rvm/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/sbin:/usr/local/share/dotnet:/opt/X11/bin:/Library/Frameworks/Mono.framework/Versions/Current/Commands", "PWD"=>"/Users/sam/documents/code/bookmark_manager", "LANG"=>"en_GB.UTF-8", "_system_arch"=>"x86_64", "XPC_FLAGS"=>"0x0", "_system_version"=>"10.13", "XPC_SERVICE_NAME"=>"0", "rvm_version"=>"1.29.3 (latest)", "rvm_pretty_print_flag"=>"auto", "HOME"=>"/Users/sam", "SHLVL"=>"1", "rvm_ruby_string"=>"ruby-2.5.0", "LOGNAME"=>"sam", "GEM_PATH"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0:/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0@global", "rvm_delete_flag"=>"0", "DISPLAY"=>"/private/tmp/com.apple.launchd.Bdyiqb6NkV/org.macosforge.xquartz:0", "RUBY_VERSION"=>"ruby-2.5.0", "_system_name"=>"OSX", "_"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0/bin/rspec", "__CF_USER_TEXT_ENCODING"=>"0x1F5:0x0:0x2", "BUNDLER_ORIG_BUNDLE_BIN_PATH"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLER_ORIG_BUNDLE_GEMFILE"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLER_ORIG_BUNDLER_ORIG_MANPATH"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLER_ORIG_BUNDLER_VERSION"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLER_ORIG_GEM_HOME"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0", "BUNDLER_ORIG_GEM_PATH"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0:/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0@global", "BUNDLER_ORIG_MANPATH"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLER_ORIG_PATH"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0/bin:/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0@global/bin:/Users/sam/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.5.0/bin:/Users/sam/.rvm/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/sbin:/usr/local/share/dotnet:/opt/X11/bin:/Library/Frameworks/Mono.framework/Versions/Current/Commands", "BUNDLER_ORIG_RB_USER_INSTALL"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLER_ORIG_RUBYLIB"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLER_ORIG_RUBYOPT"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLE_GEMFILE"=>"/Users/sam/Documents/Code/bookmark_manager/Gemfile", "BUNDLE_BIN_PATH"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0/gems/bundler-1.16.1/exe/bundle", "BUNDLER_VERSION"=>"1.16.1", "RUBYOPT"=>"-rbundler/setup", "RUBYLIB"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0/gems/bundler-1.16.1/lib"}
```

There's a lot of information there. Rather than trying to understand the whole thing at once, let's break it down:

- This looks like a hash (it's got `{}` braces around it, and it has keys which `=>` hashrocket to values). Hashes store information structured by keys.
- Let's pick two keys at random: `PWD` and `RUBY_VERSION`. If we understand them, maybe we can understand this hash:
  - The `PWD` key has a value of `"/Users/sam/documents/code/bookmark_manager"`. That looks like the directory we're currently in. If we typed `pwd` into the command line from the `bookmark_manager` directory, we'd get this string.
  - The `RUBY_VERSION` key has a value of `"ruby-2.5.0"`. That's the version of Ruby we're currently using.

If I were to guess what this object was, I'd say it's some sort of way of _storing information about the current operating environment_. We can use it to inform our program as to which environment it's operating in.

When we run our tests, we run `rspec` from the command line. Which file is always run before anything else?

The `spec_helper.rb`!

So, let's add a line at the top of `spec_helper.rb`:

```ruby
# in spec/spec_helper.rb

ENV['ENVIRONMENT'] = 'test'
```

### Using the Environment variable to pick the right database

We can now use this omnipresent `ENV` variable in our `Bookmark` class, to determine which database we should connect to:

```ruby
# in lib/link.rb
require 'pg'

class Bookmark
  def self.all
    if ENV['ENVIRONMENT'] == 'test'
      connection = PG.connect(dbname: 'bookmark_manager_test')
    else
      connection = PG.connect(dbname: 'bookmark_manager')
    end

    result = connection.exec("SELECT * FROM bookmarks")
    result.map { |bookmark| bookmark['url'] }
  end
end
```

This gives the following result:

- When we run our server using `rspec`, the `ENV['ENVIRONMENT']` variable is set to `'test'`, and our `Bookmark` class connects to `bookmark_manager_test`.
- When we run our server in any other way, the `ENV['ENVIRONMENT']` variable is not set, and our `Bookmark` class connects to `bookmark_manager`.

> This is obviously going to get very complicated as we add more methods to `Bookmark`. We'll worry about that later.

### Fixing the unit tests

If you run `rspec` now you'll see that in addition to the failing feature test, a unit test has started failing. We'll fix the feature test in the next few steps, but there's a simple change we can make to the unit test to get it passing again:

```ruby
# in spec/bookmark_spec.rb

describe '.all' do
  it 'returns a list of bookmarks' do
    connection = PG.connect(dbname: 'bookmark_manager_test')

    # Add the test data
    connection.exec("INSERT INTO bookmarks (url) VALUES ('http://www.makersacademy.com');")
    connection.exec("INSERT INTO bookmarks (url) VALUES('http://www.destroyallsoftware.com');")
    connection.exec("INSERT INTO bookmarks (url) VALUES('http://www.google.com');")

    bookmarks = Bookmark.all

    expect(bookmarks).to include('http://www.makersacademy.com')
    expect(bookmarks).to include('http://www.destroyallsoftware.com')
    expect(bookmarks).to include('http://www.google.com')
  end
end
```

## Setting up the test environment correctly

**Tests should always run against an empty database.** We should set up any required Test data in the test itself. Let's write a script that sets up and clears out the test database each run.

We need to 'drop' the database between each run of the script. Let's use PostgreSQL's `TRUNCATE` command to do that:

```ruby
# in spec/setup_test_database.rb

require 'pg'

p "Setting up test database..."

connection = PG.connect(dbname: 'bookmark_manager_test')

# Clear the bookmarks table
connection.exec("TRUNCATE bookmarks;")
```

This approach cleans the data from the `bookmarks` table. We could've also used `DROP TABLE` to remove the full table, you can find out about the [differences between `DROP TABLE` and `TRUNCATE`](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/135653/difference-between-drop-table-and-truncate-table).

Great! Now whenever run each spec, we:

- Run the `setup_database.rb` script, which cleans the `bookmarks` table.
- Run the tests using `rspec`.

Now, in our test for listing bookmarks, we need to add some bookmarks to the database:

```ruby
# in spec/features/viewing_bookmarks_spec.rb
require 'pg'

feature 'Viewing bookmarks' do
  scenario 'A user can see bookmarks' do
    connection = PG.connect(dbname: 'bookmark_manager_test')

    # Add the test data
    connection.exec("INSERT INTO bookmarks VALUES(1, 'http://www.makersacademy.com');")
    connection.exec("INSERT INTO bookmarks VALUES(2, 'http://www.destroyallsoftware.com');")
    connection.exec("INSERT INTO bookmarks VALUES(3, 'http://www.google.com');")

    visit('/bookmarks')

    expect(page).to have_content "http://www.makersacademy.com"
    expect(page).to have_content "http://www.destroyallsoftware.com"
    expect(page).to have_content "http://www.google.com"
  end
end
```

## Integrate the script into our test runner, `rspec`

Now we have to run two programs whenever we want to run our tests:

```
$> ruby spec/setup_test_database.rb
$> rspec
```

Even worse, we have to run the `setup_test_database.rb` script before _each_ spec – so we have to run our specs one-by-one.

Wouldn't it be great if `rspec` just ran the `setup_test_database` script automatically, before each spec?

We can do this by wrapping the code in `setup_test_database` in a method of the same name, and calling that method before each test:

```ruby
# in spec/spec_helper.rb

require_relative './setup_test_database'

ENV['ENVIRONMENT'] = 'test'

RSpec.configure do |config|
  config.before(:each) do
    setup_test_database
  end
end

### rest of the file ###
```

Now, whenever we run `rspec`, our script will 'clean' our database before each test!

[Next Challenge](../10_creating_bookmarks.md)

Commit message:

Bookmark manager oct update (#910)
* removes incorrect instruction in map step 4

* introduces a DM migration record to step 5

* adds db setup instructions note to step 9

* adds database migration file to step 10

* adds persisted data check and db migration to step 11

* minor corrections

* adding persisted data check and db migration to step 16

* adds reference to db migrations and persisted helper to step 18

* adds reference to ORM into step 14

* changes to improve flow of walkthrough

* rewrites walkthrough to improve flow

* update to step 15 to reflect new place in challenge

* corrects persisted_data check in step 11

* minor changes in 16 and 18 to use persisted data help consistently

* corrects minor errors in steps 10 and 13

bookmark_manager/walkthroughs/09.md, after:

# Walkthrough – Setting up a Testing Environment

[Back to Challenge](../09_setting_up_a_testing_environment.md)

It's normal to have **multiple environments** in applications. These might include:

- A **development** environment that runs locally on your computer, so you can click around it and work on it.
- A **production** environment that runs remotely on someone else's computer, so other people on the internet can click around it.
- A **test** environment that runs locally on your computer whenever you run your tests. It comes into being especially for your tests, and disappears straight after your tests finish.

> There's also a **staging** environment, where your application runs remotely on someone else's computer, at a secret link so you can click around it to check it's all working right before you move it to production.

Each environment runs a whole version of your application. So far, we've been using the **development** and **testing** environments together: which has caused problems.

In this walkthrough, we will:

- Set up a database for our test environment.
- Set up an Environmental Variable to tell the application to start in the test environment (and use the test database) when we want it to.
- Write a script that sets up the testing environment before our tests run.
- Integrate the script with our test runner, RSpec, so we don't have to think about it any more.

> If you'd prefer to read through the diff for this step, head to [this commit](https://github.com/soph-g/bookmark-manager-example/commit/9e94edc83851a1095e448982c0b3d3fe95b042f1).

## Setting up a test database

For each environment, we will have our own database.

- The **production** database will contain 'real' data. For instance: Facebook's _production_ environment contains real-life users, posts, comments, likes, and so on.
- The **test** database will contain no data. This way, we can set up whatever data we need right before we run our tests.
- The **development** database will initially contain no data. If we run our application locally, we can add data to it.

To set up a test database, let's run `psql` and create a database, and use the SQL query saved in `db/migrations/01_create_bookmarks_table.sql` to create a bookmarks table.

```
$> psql
admin=# CREATE DATABASE "bookmark_manager_test";
admin=# CREATE TABLE bookmarks(id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY, url VARCHAR(60));
```

Now, if we list databases (in `psql` or by looking in TablePlus), we'll see two databases for our application: `bookmark_manager`, and the new `bookmark_manager_test` database.

## Updating documentation

You've now setup and are maintaining two databases for Bookmark Manager. Remember to update the `README` with instructions to create the `test` database, and run the `psql` commands for both databases.

## Set up an Environment Variable to tell the application to use the test database when we run our tests

An **Environment Variable** is a special kind of constant: one that tells the application something about its current environment.

There are two things we need to do:

1. Set up the Environment Variable as `test` when we run our tests.
2. Set up the `Bookmark` model to use the `bookmark_manager` database when we are in the development environment, and the `bookmark_manager_test` database when we are in the test database.

### Setting up the Environment Variable

Sinatra is built on a technology called Rack. Rack provides Sinatra with a built-in variable, `ENV`. It's available anywhere in Sinatra. Take a look at it by printing it in any application request:

```ruby
get '/bookmarks' do
  # Print the ENV variable
  p ENV

  @bookmarks = Bookmark.all
  erb :index
end
```

When you visit `/bookmarks` (either by running your tests or by visiting the homepage in a browser), something like the following is printed to the logs:

```ruby
{"rvm_bin_path"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/bin", "TERM_PROGRAM"=>"Apple_Terminal", "GEM_HOME"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0", "TERM"=>"xterm-256color", "SHELL"=>"/bin/bash", "IRBRC"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.5.0/.irbrc", "TMPDIR"=>"/var/folders/4p/qbw72tbd0b7031yy5dx3q2pc0000gn/T/", "Apple_PubSub_Socket_Render"=>"/private/tmp/com.apple.launchd.KhmiOUg83a/Render", "TERM_PROGRAM_VERSION"=>"400", "OLDPWD"=>"/Users/sam/documents/code", "MY_RUBY_HOME"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.5.0", "TERM_SESSION_ID"=>"8F1ADFC0-EE57-4DC0-8283-459E9B3B2415", "USER"=>"sam", "_system_type"=>"Darwin", "rvm_path"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm", "SSH_AUTH_SOCK"=>"/private/tmp/com.apple.launchd.QhS0am2Gbs/Listeners", "rvm_prefix"=>"/Users/sam", "PATH"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0/bin:/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0@global/bin:/Users/sam/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.5.0/bin:/Users/sam/.rvm/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/sbin:/usr/local/share/dotnet:/opt/X11/bin:/Library/Frameworks/Mono.framework/Versions/Current/Commands", "PWD"=>"/Users/sam/documents/code/bookmark_manager", "LANG"=>"en_GB.UTF-8", "_system_arch"=>"x86_64", "XPC_FLAGS"=>"0x0", "_system_version"=>"10.13", "XPC_SERVICE_NAME"=>"0", "rvm_version"=>"1.29.3 (latest)", "rvm_pretty_print_flag"=>"auto", "HOME"=>"/Users/sam", "SHLVL"=>"1", "rvm_ruby_string"=>"ruby-2.5.0", "LOGNAME"=>"sam", "GEM_PATH"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0:/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0@global", "rvm_delete_flag"=>"0", "DISPLAY"=>"/private/tmp/com.apple.launchd.Bdyiqb6NkV/org.macosforge.xquartz:0", "RUBY_VERSION"=>"ruby-2.5.0", "_system_name"=>"OSX", "_"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0/bin/rspec", "__CF_USER_TEXT_ENCODING"=>"0x1F5:0x0:0x2", "BUNDLER_ORIG_BUNDLE_BIN_PATH"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLER_ORIG_BUNDLE_GEMFILE"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLER_ORIG_BUNDLER_ORIG_MANPATH"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLER_ORIG_BUNDLER_VERSION"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLER_ORIG_GEM_HOME"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0", "BUNDLER_ORIG_GEM_PATH"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0:/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0@global", "BUNDLER_ORIG_MANPATH"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLER_ORIG_PATH"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0/bin:/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0@global/bin:/Users/sam/.rvm/rubies/ruby-2.5.0/bin:/Users/sam/.rvm/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/sbin:/usr/local/share/dotnet:/opt/X11/bin:/Library/Frameworks/Mono.framework/Versions/Current/Commands", "BUNDLER_ORIG_RB_USER_INSTALL"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLER_ORIG_RUBYLIB"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLER_ORIG_RUBYOPT"=>"BUNDLER_ENVIRONMENT_PRESERVER_INTENTIONALLY_NIL", "BUNDLE_GEMFILE"=>"/Users/sam/Documents/Code/bookmark_manager/Gemfile", "BUNDLE_BIN_PATH"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0/gems/bundler-1.16.1/exe/bundle", "BUNDLER_VERSION"=>"1.16.1", "RUBYOPT"=>"-rbundler/setup", "RUBYLIB"=>"/Users/sam/.rvm/gems/ruby-2.5.0/gems/bundler-1.16.1/lib"}
```

There's a lot of information there. Rather than trying to understand the whole thing at once, let's break it down:

- This looks like a hash (it's got `{}` braces around it, and it has keys which `=>` hashrocket to values). Hashes store information structured by keys.
- Let's pick two keys at random: `PWD` and `RUBY_VERSION`. If we understand them, maybe we can understand this hash:
  - The `PWD` key has a value of `"/Users/sam/documents/code/bookmark_manager"`. That looks like the directory we're currently in. If we typed `pwd` into the command line from the `bookmark_manager` directory, we'd get this string.
  - The `RUBY_VERSION` key has a value of `"ruby-2.5.0"`. That's the version of Ruby we're currently using.

If I were to guess what this object was, I'd say it's some sort of way of _storing information about the current operating environment_. We can use it to inform our program as to which environment it's operating in.

When we run our tests, we run `rspec` from the command line. Which file is always run before anything else?

The `spec_helper.rb`!

So, let's add a line at the top of `spec_helper.rb`:

```ruby
# in spec/spec_helper.rb

ENV['ENVIRONMENT'] = 'test'
```

### Using the Environment variable to pick the right database

We can now use this omnipresent `ENV` variable in our `Bookmark` class, to determine which database we should connect to:

```ruby
# in lib/link.rb
require 'pg'

class Bookmark
  def self.all
    if ENV['ENVIRONMENT'] == 'test'
      connection = PG.connect(dbname: 'bookmark_manager_test')
    else
      connection = PG.connect(dbname: 'bookmark_manager')
    end

    result = connection.exec("SELECT * FROM bookmarks")
    result.map { |bookmark| bookmark['url'] }
  end
end
```

This gives the following result:

- When we run our server using `rspec`, the `ENV['ENVIRONMENT']` variable is set to `'test'`, and our `Bookmark` class connects to `bookmark_manager_test`.
- When we run our server in any other way, the `ENV['ENVIRONMENT']` variable is not set, and our `Bookmark` class connects to `bookmark_manager`.

> This is obviously going to get very complicated as we add more methods to `Bookmark`. We'll worry about that later.

### Fixing the unit tests

If you run `rspec` now you'll see that in addition to the failing feature test, a unit test has started failing. We'll fix the feature test in the next few steps, but there's a simple change we can make to the unit test to get it passing again:

```ruby
# in spec/bookmark_spec.rb

describe '.all' do
  it 'returns a list of bookmarks' do
    connection = PG.connect(dbname: 'bookmark_manager_test')

    # Add the test data
    connection.exec("INSERT INTO bookmarks (url) VALUES ('http://www.makersacademy.com');")
    connection.exec("INSERT INTO bookmarks (url) VALUES('http://www.destroyallsoftware.com');")
    connection.exec("INSERT INTO bookmarks (url) VALUES('http://www.google.com');")

    bookmarks = Bookmark.all

    expect(bookmarks).to include('http://www.makersacademy.com')
    expect(bookmarks).to include('http://www.destroyallsoftware.com')
    expect(bookmarks).to include('http://www.google.com')
  end
end
```

## Setting up the test environment correctly

**Tests should always run against an empty database.** We should set up any required Test data in the test itself. Let's write a script that sets up and clears out the test database each run.

We need to 'drop' the database between each run of the script. Let's use PostgreSQL's `TRUNCATE` command to do that:

```ruby
# in spec/setup_test_database.rb

require 'pg'

p "Setting up test database..."

connection = PG.connect(dbname: 'bookmark_manager_test')

# Clear the bookmarks table
connection.exec("TRUNCATE bookmarks;")
```

This approach cleans the data from the `bookmarks` table. We could've also used `DROP TABLE` to remove the full table, you can find out about the [differences between `DROP TABLE` and `TRUNCATE`](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/135653/difference-between-drop-table-and-truncate-table).

Great! Now whenever run each spec, we:

- Run the `setup_database.rb` script, which cleans the `bookmarks` table.
- Run the tests using `rspec`.

Now, in our test for listing bookmarks, we need to add some bookmarks to the database:

```ruby
# in spec/features/viewing_bookmarks_spec.rb
require 'pg'

feature 'Viewing bookmarks' do
  scenario 'A user can see bookmarks' do
    connection = PG.connect(dbname: 'bookmark_manager_test')

    # Add the test data
    connection.exec("INSERT INTO bookmarks VALUES(1, 'http://www.makersacademy.com');")
    connection.exec("INSERT INTO bookmarks VALUES(2, 'http://www.destroyallsoftware.com');")
    connection.exec("INSERT INTO bookmarks VALUES(3, 'http://www.google.com');")

    visit('/bookmarks')

    expect(page).to have_content "http://www.makersacademy.com"
    expect(page).to have_content "http://www.destroyallsoftware.com"
    expect(page).to have_content "http://www.google.com"
  end
end
```

## Integrate the script into our test runner, `rspec`

Now we have to run two programs whenever we want to run our tests:

```
$> ruby spec/setup_test_database.rb
$> rspec
```

Even worse, we have to run the `setup_test_database.rb` script before _each_ spec – so we have to run our specs one-by-one.

Wouldn't it be great if `rspec` just ran the `setup_test_database` script automatically, before each spec?

We can do this by wrapping the code in `setup_test_database` in a method of the same name, and calling that method before each test:

```ruby
# in spec/spec_helper.rb

require_relative './setup_test_database'

ENV['ENVIRONMENT'] = 'test'

RSpec.configure do |config|
  config.before(:each) do
    setup_test_database
  end
end

### rest of the file ###
```

Now, whenever we run `rspec`, our script will 'clean' our database before each test!

[Next Challenge](../10_creating_bookmarks.md)
