bookmark_manager/walkthroughs/10.md, before:

# Walkthrough – Extracting a Database Setup object

[Back to Challenge](../10_extracting_a_database_setup_object.md)

In this Walkthrough, we will extract a `DatabaseConnection` object, and use it to set up a database connection on-boot. We'll use `DatabaseConnection` in the `Link` class to act on the database, like this:

```ruby
# in link.rb
require 'database_connection'

class Link
  def self.all
    result = DatabaseConnection.query("SELECT * FROM links")
    result.map { |link| link['url'] }
  end
end
```

We can test that this object connects to the correct database. At the moment, we have no test to avoid connecting to the wrong one.

> Whenever this 'vacuous testing' happens, we should **come up with a test to stop it from happening.**

We're going to: 

1. Extract the database connection logic to an object, `DatabaseConnection`.
2. Use `DatabaseConnection` to set up a persistent connection to the correct database, with a method `setup`.
3. Wrap PG's `exec` method with a method, `DatabaseConnection.query`, that executes queries on the database.
4. Replace `Link` calls to `PG.connect` and `connection` with calls to `DatabaseConnection.query`.

## 1. Extracting the database connection logic to an object

We're going to write a simple wrapper for the method `PG.connect`. It's going to be a class method, `setup`, on an object called `DatabaseConnection`.

Here's a test for that method:

```ruby
# in spec/database_connection_spec.rb

require 'database_connection'

RSpec.describe DatabaseConnection do
  describe '.setup' do
    it 'sets up a connection to a database through PG' do
      expect(PG).to receive(:connect).with(dbname: 'bookmark_manager_test')

      DatabaseConnection.setup('bookmark_manager_test')
    end
  end
end
```

Here's the implementation of that class:

```ruby
require 'pg'

class DatabaseConnection
  def self.setup(dbname)
    PG.connect(dbname: dbname)
  end
end
```

We should also write a test to ensure we can get the connection later on, through a class method called `connection`:

```ruby
it 'this connection is persistent' do
  # Grab the connection as a return value from the .setup method
  connection = DatabaseConnection.setup('bookmark_manager_test')

  expect(DatabaseConnection.connection).to eq connection
end
```

Here's the implementation for `DatabaseConnection` that solves this:

```ruby
# in lib/database_connection.rb

require 'pg'

class DatabaseConnection
  def self.setup(dbname)
    @connection = PG.connect(dbname: dbname)
  end

  def self.connection
    @connection
  end
end
```

> We're using a _class instance variable_ to store the connection. We can do this because our `DatabaseConnection` is never going to be instantiated. It's a 'Singleton' object: there's only one `DatabaseConnection` in the application.

## 2. Using `DatabaseConnection` to set up a connection

When the application boots, we want the database connection to be setup. Therefore, let's:

- Require the `DatabaseConnection` into a script, `database_connection_setup.rb`
- Setup the database connection in this script, and
- Require this file into `app.rb`.

First, let's write a script in which we'll set up the database connection:

```ruby
# in database_connection_setup.rb

require './lib/database_connection'

if ENV['ENVIRONMENT'] == 'test'
  DatabaseConnection.setup('bookmark_manager_test')
else
  DatabaseConnection.setup('bookmark_manager')
end
```

Now, let's include the script in `app.rb`:

```ruby
# in app.rb

require 'sinatra/base'
require './lib/link'
require './database_connection_setup'

class BookmarkManager < Sinatra::Base
   ### rest of the controller ###
end
```

## 3. Adding a `query` method to `DatabaseConnection`

Let's add a `query` method to the `DatabaseConnection` object so we can use it to query the database. Here's the sort of code we want:

```
# in link.rb
require 'database_connection'

class Link
  def self.all
    result = DatabaseConnection.query("SELECT * FROM links")
    result.map { |link| link['url'] }
  end
end
```

First, we write a test for `.query`:

```ruby
# in spec/database_connection_spec.rb

describe '.query' do
  it 'executes a query via PG' do
    connection = DatabaseConnection.setup('bookmark_manager_test')
    
    expect(connection).to receive(:exec).with("SELECT * FROM links;")

    DatabaseConnection.query("SELECT * FROM links;")
  end
end
```

We can pass this test by adding a `.query` class method to the `DatabaseConnection`. `query` just passes an SQL query string to the connection created by `setup`:

```ruby
# in lib/database_connection.rb

require 'pg'

class DatabaseConnection
  def self.setup(dbname)
    @connection = PG.connect(dbname: dbname)
  end

  def self.connection
    @connection
  end

  def self.query(sql)
    @connection.exec(sql)
  end
end
```

> Because the test for `query` relies explicitly on the persistent connection created by `setup`, we can now remove the `DatabaseConnection.connection` method (and test).

## 4. Replace PG with our wrapper in `Link`

Now that we've written a wrapper for PG, we can replace all calls to `PG` and `connection` with calls to this object:

```ruby
# in lib/link.rb

require 'database_connection'

class Link
  def self.all
    result = DatabaseConnection.query("SELECT * FROM links")
    result.map { |link| link['url'] }
  end

  def self.create(options)
    DatabaseConnection.query("INSERT INTO links (url) VALUES('#{options[:url]}')")
  end
end
```

We've successfully factored out our Database Connection! Now, we've separated connecting to databases from modifying data.

[Next Challenge](../11_using_rake.md)

Commit message:

Add commit link to BM Stage 10 Walkthrough

bookmark_manager/walkthroughs/10.md, after:

# Walkthrough – Extracting a Database Setup object

[Back to Challenge](../10_extracting_a_database_setup_object.md)

In this Walkthrough, we will extract a `DatabaseConnection` object, and use it to set up a database connection on-boot. We'll use `DatabaseConnection` in the `Link` class to act on the database, like this:

```ruby
# in link.rb
require 'database_connection'

class Link
  def self.all
    result = DatabaseConnection.query("SELECT * FROM links")
    result.map { |link| link['url'] }
  end
end
```

> This step is also available as a commit! If you prefer to use a code diff as a hint, it's [here](https://github.com/sjmog/bookmark_manager/commit/bf49775d64c007da2eda4b986234ebafd6d332b1).

We can test that this object connects to the correct database. At the moment, we have no test to avoid connecting to the wrong one.

> Whenever this 'vacuous testing' happens, we should **come up with a test to stop it from happening.**

We're going to: 

1. Extract the database connection logic to an object, `DatabaseConnection`.
2. Use `DatabaseConnection` to set up a persistent connection to the correct database, with a method `setup`.
3. Wrap PG's `exec` method with a method, `DatabaseConnection.query`, that executes queries on the database.
4. Replace `Link` calls to `PG.connect` and `connection` with calls to `DatabaseConnection.query`.

## 1. Extracting the database connection logic to an object

We're going to write a simple wrapper for the method `PG.connect`. It's going to be a class method, `setup`, on an object called `DatabaseConnection`.

Here's a test for that method:

```ruby
# in spec/database_connection_spec.rb

require 'database_connection'

RSpec.describe DatabaseConnection do
  describe '.setup' do
    it 'sets up a connection to a database through PG' do
      expect(PG).to receive(:connect).with(dbname: 'bookmark_manager_test')

      DatabaseConnection.setup('bookmark_manager_test')
    end
  end
end
```

Here's the implementation of that class:

```ruby
require 'pg'

class DatabaseConnection
  def self.setup(dbname)
    PG.connect(dbname: dbname)
  end
end
```

We should also write a test to ensure we can get the connection later on, through a class method called `connection`:

```ruby
it 'this connection is persistent' do
  # Grab the connection as a return value from the .setup method
  connection = DatabaseConnection.setup('bookmark_manager_test')

  expect(DatabaseConnection.connection).to eq connection
end
```

Here's the implementation for `DatabaseConnection` that solves this:

```ruby
# in lib/database_connection.rb

require 'pg'

class DatabaseConnection
  def self.setup(dbname)
    @connection = PG.connect(dbname: dbname)
  end

  def self.connection
    @connection
  end
end
```

> We're using a _class instance variable_ to store the connection. We can do this because our `DatabaseConnection` is never going to be instantiated. It's a 'Singleton' object: there's only one `DatabaseConnection` in the application.

## 2. Using `DatabaseConnection` to set up a connection

When the application boots, we want the database connection to be setup. Therefore, let's:

- Require the `DatabaseConnection` into a script, `database_connection_setup.rb`
- Setup the database connection in this script, and
- Require this file into `app.rb`.

First, let's write a script in which we'll set up the database connection:

```ruby
# in database_connection_setup.rb

require './lib/database_connection'

if ENV['ENVIRONMENT'] == 'test'
  DatabaseConnection.setup('bookmark_manager_test')
else
  DatabaseConnection.setup('bookmark_manager')
end
```

Now, let's include the script in `app.rb`:

```ruby
# in app.rb

require 'sinatra/base'
require './lib/link'
require './database_connection_setup'

class BookmarkManager < Sinatra::Base
   ### rest of the controller ###
end
```

## 3. Adding a `query` method to `DatabaseConnection`

Let's add a `query` method to the `DatabaseConnection` object so we can use it to query the database. Here's the sort of code we want:

```
# in link.rb
require 'database_connection'

class Link
  def self.all
    result = DatabaseConnection.query("SELECT * FROM links")
    result.map { |link| link['url'] }
  end
end
```

First, we write a test for `.query`:

```ruby
# in spec/database_connection_spec.rb

describe '.query' do
  it 'executes a query via PG' do
    connection = DatabaseConnection.setup('bookmark_manager_test')
    
    expect(connection).to receive(:exec).with("SELECT * FROM links;")

    DatabaseConnection.query("SELECT * FROM links;")
  end
end
```

We can pass this test by adding a `.query` class method to the `DatabaseConnection`. `query` just passes an SQL query string to the connection created by `setup`:

```ruby
# in lib/database_connection.rb

require 'pg'

class DatabaseConnection
  def self.setup(dbname)
    @connection = PG.connect(dbname: dbname)
  end

  def self.connection
    @connection
  end

  def self.query(sql)
    @connection.exec(sql)
  end
end
```

> Because the test for `query` relies explicitly on the persistent connection created by `setup`, we can now remove the `DatabaseConnection.connection` method (and test).

## 4. Replace PG with our wrapper in `Link`

Now that we've written a wrapper for PG, we can replace all calls to `PG` and `connection` with calls to this object:

```ruby
# in lib/link.rb

require 'database_connection'

class Link
  def self.all
    result = DatabaseConnection.query("SELECT * FROM links")
    result.map { |link| link['url'] }
  end

  def self.create(options)
    DatabaseConnection.query("INSERT INTO links (url) VALUES('#{options[:url]}')")
  end
end
```

We've successfully factored out our Database Connection! Now, we've separated connecting to databases from modifying data.

[Next Challenge](../11_using_rake.md)
