Bookmark# Walkthrough - Many to Many Relationships

[Back to Challenge](../17_many_to_many_relationships.md)

### Overview

In a many-to-many relationship, there are two models and a **join table**:

- one 'sibling' model, `Bookmark`, _belongs to_ and _has many_ `Tag`s.
- the other 'sibling' model, `Tag`, _belongs to_ and _has many_ `Bookmark`s.
- the **join table** _belongs to_ `Bookmark` and _belongs to_ `Tag`.

> Sometimes, many-to-many relationships are called _has and belongs to many_ relationships.

```
  MANY       ≡––≡   MANY
 Bookmarks   ≡––≡   Tags
```

One way to store this in a table relationship is to add a **join table**, with two extra columns: the ID of both a `Bookmark` and a `Tag`.

For instance, in the table below are some **Bookmarks**:

| id | url                          | title |
|----|------------------------------|---------|
| 1  | http://www.google.com            | Google       |
| 2  | http://www.makersacademy.com     | Makers Academy     |

Here are some **Tags**:

| id | content                    |
|----|----------------------------|
| 1  | Research                   |
| 2  | Social |

And here is the **BookmarkTags** join table:

| id | bookmark_id                    | tag_id |
|----|-------------------------|---------|
| 1  | 1            | 1       |
| 2  | 2 | 1      |
| 3  | 2    | 2 |

Starting from the join table and looking up records by the ID given in the bookmark_id and tag_id column, we can tell:

- Google is tagged with 'Research'.
- Makers Academy is tagged with 'Research' and 'Social'.

### REST

Just like one-to-many relationships can have this **nested resource** structure:

```
GET /bookmarks/:id/comments # => read comments about this bookmark
POST /bookmarks/:id/comments # => make a comment about this bookmark
```

So many-to-many relationships can have them too:

```
GET /bookmarks/:id/tags # => read tags for this bookmark
POST /bookmarks/:id/tags # => make a tag for this bookmark

GET /tags/:id/bookmarks # => read bookmarks with this tag
POST /tags/:id/bookmarks # => make a bookmark for this tag
```

> You won't have all these routes in your application. For instance: there's no user requirement for Bookmark Manager to allow for the creation of bookmarks belonging to a specific tag.

## Making a many-to-many relationship

The stages for making the initial many-to-many relationship, and viewing tags by bookmark, are in [this](https://github.com/soph-g/bookmark-manager-example/commit/7df5f8ecd276f73b5b121f2d33b4103b0d3714ff) commit. They are:

* Add a Tags table
* Add a BookmarkTags table
* Add routes for creating tags
* Add Tags and BookmarkTags models
* Add `#tags` method to Bookmark instances

## Filtering bookmarks by tags

The stages for making the reverse relationship, and viewing bookmarks by tag, are in [this](https://github.com/soph-g/bookmark-manager-example/commit/f91cd2e337aa33eb459419f2fe655d6e0afff253) commit. They are:

* Complete the `tag.bookmarks` part of the many-many relationship.
* Add a `GET /tags/:id/bookmarks` route.

One-to-many and many-to-many relationships are the 'tough stuff' of relational databases. Now we'll go onto something a little more 'recipe'-ish: User Registration.

[Next Challenge](../18_relationships.md)
