bookmark_manager/walkthroughs/18.md, before:

# Walkthrough – Registration

[Back to Challenge](../18_registration.md)

We are going to duplicate a lot of the Bookmark functionality to create a User object.

This walkthrough is in 5 parts:

1. Create the `users` table.
2. Write the feature test for registration.
3. Build out the User form and route structure.
4. Create a User model for registration, using `Bookmark` as an inspiration, and saving the user ID to the session.
5. Make the password secure.

## 1. Creating the Users table

> Stages 1 – 5 are available from [this commit](https://github.com/sjmog/bookmark_manager/commit/d3fa868bb2699924cd3418ef77aec697cbbc26b8), if you'd prefer.

We are going to need a table for our User model. It will have:

- A `SERIAL PRIMARY KEY`, `id`
- A `VARCHAR(60)`, `email`
- A `VARCHAR(140)`, `password`

Use `psql` to set this table up in the `bookmark_manager` and `bookmark_manager_test` databases, and save the SQL query into a file in `db/migrations` for future reference.

Let's also update our test setup so we're truncating the user table between each test:

```ruby
# in spec/setup_test_database

def setup_test_database
  connection = PG.connect(dbname: 'bookmark_manager_test')

  # Clean the bookmarks table
  connection.exec("TRUNCATE bookmarks, comments, tags, bookmarks_tags, users;")
end
```

## 2. Write the feature test

Just like Bookmarks, Users are created by filling out a form. Where the Bookmark form has fields for `url` and `title`, the User form has fields for `email` and `password`. The user flow is:

- Visit the RESTful route `/users/new`
- Fill out the form with an email and password, and hit submit
- See 'Welcome, <email>' on the bookmarks page.

Let's translate that to Capybara-speak:

```ruby
# in spec/features/registration_spec.rb

feature 'registration' do
  scenario 'a user can sign up' do
    visit '/users/new'
    fill_in('email', with: 'test@example.com')
    fill_in('password', with: 'password123')
    click_button('Submit')

    expect(page).to have_content "Welcome, test@example.com"
  end
end
```

## 3. Supply the new User form and route structure

Our route structure will involve:

- a `GET /users/new` route to serve the form
- a `POST /users` route to create the new user
- a redirect from `POST /users` to `/bookmarks`.

Let's set that up in `app.rb`:

```ruby
# in app.rb

get '/users/new' do
  erb :"users/new"
end

post '/users' do
  # create the user and then...
  redirect '/bookmarks'
end
```

Here's the new User form:

```html
<!-- in views/users/new -->

<form action="/users" method="post">
  <input type="email" name="email" />
  <input type="password" name="password" />
  <input type="submit" value="Submit" />
</form>
```

Now, we need to create the user.

## 4. Create the user

Our post action must create a user. In the past, we've started by putting our database query in the controller. Now that we have a pattern with Bookmark, though, let's jump straight to using the `.create` pattern with User:

```ruby
# in app.rb

post '/users' do
  User.create(email: params[:email], password: params[:password])
  redirect '/bookmarks'
end
```

Let's implement a test for creating a User like this, using the `persisted_data` helper method to check that the user has been created in the database.

```ruby
# in spec/user_spec.rb
require 'database_helpers'

describe '.create' do
  it 'creates a new user' do
    user = User.create(email: 'test@example.com', password: 'password123')

    persisted_data = persisted_data(table: :users, id: user.id)

    expect(user).to be_a User
    expect(user.id).to eq persisted_data.first['id']
    expect(user.email).to eq 'test@example.com'
  end
end
```

And let's solve this in `lib/user.rb`:

```ruby
# in lib/user.rb

require 'database_connection'

class User
  def self.create(email:, password:)
    result = DatabaseConnection.query("INSERT INTO users (email, password) VALUES('#{email}', '#{password}') RETURNING id, email;")
    User.new(id: result[0]['id'], email: result[0]['email'])
  end

  attr_reader :id, :email

  def initialize(id:, email:)
    @id = id
    @email = email
  end
end
```

> Notice that we've immediately implemented the pattern from 'wrapping database data in program objects'. That is: `User.create` returns a `User` instance.

## 5. Presenting the User email to the signed-in user

We'd like our `views/bookmarks/index.erb` to welcome the user:

```html
<!-- in views/bookmarks/index.erb -->

<% if @user %>
  <h1>Welcome, <%= @user.email %></h1>
<% end %>
```

To get this working, let's work backwards from the view again.

How does `@user` get into the view? It will have to come from the controller. Specifically, from the route that renders this view. That's this one:

```ruby
# in app.rb

get '/bookmarks' do
  @user = ??? # where does this come from?
  @bookmarks = Bookmark.all
  erb :"bookmarks/index"  
end
```

Users are created in the `POST /users` route. Then, the user is redirected to the `GET /bookmarks` route. **To persist information across a redirect, we need to user the session.**

That is, we can get the `@user` from something like this:

```ruby
# in app.rb

get '/bookmarks' do
  # Fetch the user from the database, using an ID stored in the session
  @user = User.find(session[:user_id])
  @bookmarks = Bookmark.all
  erb :"bookmarks/index"  
end
```

> We could also store the entire user in the session. But there are good reasons we won't: one of them is that the session is very small, and can't store very much data.

We therefore need to _put_ the user in the session in the `POST /users` route. To summarise, here's how that will work:

1. `POST /users`, which calls `User.create`. Return a `User` instance (with an attribute of `id`) from the `.create` method.
2. Store the `id` in the `session`, and redirect from `POST /users` to `GET /`. Redirect from `GET /` to `GET /bookmarks`.
3. `GET /bookmarks`. `User.find` using the `id` in the `session`. Return a `User` instance from the `.find` method. Store that in an instance variable, `@user`.
4. Read the user's email from the `@user` instance variable.

Whew, that's a lot. But that's the standard for web applications! Let's built it out part-by-part.

### 1. Store the `id` of the `User` instance in the `session`

First, let's store the `id` of the returned `User` instance in the `session`:

```ruby
# in app.rb

post '/users' do
  user = User.create(email: params[:email], password: params[:password])
  session[:user_id] = user.id
  redirect('/bookmarks')
end
```

### 2. Find the User using the `id` stored in the `session`.

Let's return to the `GET /bookmarks` route. In it, we want to find the user from the session:

```ruby
# in app.rb

get '/bookmarks' do
  # Fetch the user from the database, using an ID stored in the session
  @user = User.find(session[:user_id])
  @bookmarks = Bookmark.all
  erb :"bookmarks/index"  
end
```

Let's create a test for finding the user in this way:

```ruby
# in spec/user_spec.rb

describe '.find' do
  it 'finds a user by ID' do
    user = User.create(email: 'test@example.com', password: 'password123')
    result = User.find(id: user)

    expect(result.id).to eq user.id
    expect(result.email).to eq user.email
  end
end
```

And the implementation in `User`:

```ruby
# in lib/user.rb

def self.find(id)
  result = DatabaseConnection.query("SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = '#{id}'")
  User.new(result[0]['id'], result[0]['email']])
end
```

Our tests are failing at the moment, because we're not handling the case where `session[:user_id]` is nil. Insert a simple test for this:

```ruby
# in spec/user_spec.rb

describe '.find' do
  it 'returns nil if there is no ID given' do
    expect(User.find(nil)).to eq nil
  end
end
```

And a guard clause in the `User.find` method:

```diff
def self.find(id)
+  return nil unless id
  result = DatabaseConnection.query("SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = '#{id}'")
  User.new(id: result[0]['id'], email: result[0]['email']])
end
```

Our tests pass: we have created a User model! Now to secure the password.

## 5. Secure the password

At current, our users' passwords are being stored as plaintext strings. This is no good: even a very amateur hacker could get access to everyone's passwords.

While you can write your own password security system yourself, it's generally recommended to use an off-the-shelf solution. Something like **BCrypt** is an industry-standard approach to securing passwords.

> You can think of BCrypt as a magic black box at the moment. If you're interested, do some research on it!

First, let's add `bcrypt` to our Gemfile:

```ruby
# in Gemfile

gem 'bcrypt'
```

And `bundle install`. Next, let's update our `create` command to pass the password through `BCrypt::Password` before saving the password to the database. Test-first, of course:

```ruby
# in spec/user_spec.rb

describe '.create' do
  it 'hashes the password using BCrypt' do
    expect(BCrypt::Password).to receive(:create).with('password123')

    User.create(email: 'test@example.com', password: 'password123')
  end
end
```

Let's update `User.create` to use `BCrypt::Password`:

```ruby
# in lib/user.rb

require 'bcrypt'

class User
  def self.create(email:, password:)
    # encrypt the plantext password
    encrypted_password = BCrypt::Password.create(password)

    # insert the encrypted password into the database, instead of the plaintext one
    result = DatabaseConnection.query("INSERT INTO users (email, password) VALUES('#{email}', '#{encrypted_password}') RETURNING id, email")

    User.new(id: result[0]['id'], email: result[0]['email'])
  end

  ### rest of the class ###
end
```

We're now storing passwords encrypted in the database.

[Next Challenge](../19_authentication.md)

Commit message:

Bookmark manager add example links (#911)
* minor correction to step 14

* adds paths to commits for each stage

* adds extra challenges to bookmark manager

bookmark_manager/walkthroughs/18.md, after:

# Walkthrough – Registration

[Back to Challenge](../18_registration.md)

We are going to duplicate a lot of the Bookmark functionality to create a User object.

This walkthrough is in 5 parts:

1. Create the `users` table.
2. Write the feature test for registration.
3. Build out the User form and route structure.
4. Create a User model for registration, using `Bookmark` as an inspiration, and saving the user ID to the session.
5. Make the password secure.

## 1. Creating the Users table

> If you'd prefer to read the diff for this stage, refer to [this commit](https://github.com/soph-g/bookmark-manager-example/commit/eb9ce5b07d1d13954cf77d62d66cc7543dc5e139).

We are going to need a table for our User model. It will have:

- A `SERIAL PRIMARY KEY`, `id`
- A `VARCHAR(60)`, `email`
- A `VARCHAR(140)`, `password`

Use `psql` to set this table up in the `bookmark_manager` and `bookmark_manager_test` databases, and save the SQL query into a file in `db/migrations` for future reference.

Let's also update our test setup so we're truncating the user table between each test:

```ruby
# in spec/setup_test_database

def setup_test_database
  connection = PG.connect(dbname: 'bookmark_manager_test')

  # Clean the bookmarks table
  connection.exec("TRUNCATE bookmarks, comments, tags, bookmarks_tags, users;")
end
```

## 2. Write the feature test

Just like Bookmarks, Users are created by filling out a form. Where the Bookmark form has fields for `url` and `title`, the User form has fields for `email` and `password`. The user flow is:

- Visit the RESTful route `/users/new`
- Fill out the form with an email and password, and hit submit
- See 'Welcome, <email>' on the bookmarks page.

Let's translate that to Capybara-speak:

```ruby
# in spec/features/registration_spec.rb

feature 'registration' do
  scenario 'a user can sign up' do
    visit '/users/new'
    fill_in('email', with: 'test@example.com')
    fill_in('password', with: 'password123')
    click_button('Submit')

    expect(page).to have_content "Welcome, test@example.com"
  end
end
```

## 3. Supply the new User form and route structure

Our route structure will involve:

- a `GET /users/new` route to serve the form
- a `POST /users` route to create the new user
- a redirect from `POST /users` to `/bookmarks`.

Let's set that up in `app.rb`:

```ruby
# in app.rb

get '/users/new' do
  erb :"users/new"
end

post '/users' do
  # create the user and then...
  redirect '/bookmarks'
end
```

Here's the new User form:

```html
<!-- in views/users/new -->

<form action="/users" method="post">
  <input type="email" name="email" />
  <input type="password" name="password" />
  <input type="submit" value="Submit" />
</form>
```

Now, we need to create the user.

## 4. Create the user

Our post action must create a user. In the past, we've started by putting our database query in the controller. Now that we have a pattern with Bookmark, though, let's jump straight to using the `.create` pattern with User:

```ruby
# in app.rb

post '/users' do
  User.create(email: params[:email], password: params[:password])
  redirect '/bookmarks'
end
```

Let's implement a test for creating a User like this, using the `persisted_data` helper method to check that the user has been created in the database.

```ruby
# in spec/user_spec.rb
require 'database_helpers'

describe '.create' do
  it 'creates a new user' do
    user = User.create(email: 'test@example.com', password: 'password123')

    persisted_data = persisted_data(table: :users, id: user.id)

    expect(user).to be_a User
    expect(user.id).to eq persisted_data.first['id']
    expect(user.email).to eq 'test@example.com'
  end
end
```

And let's solve this in `lib/user.rb`:

```ruby
# in lib/user.rb

require 'database_connection'

class User
  def self.create(email:, password:)
    result = DatabaseConnection.query("INSERT INTO users (email, password) VALUES('#{email}', '#{password}') RETURNING id, email;")
    User.new(id: result[0]['id'], email: result[0]['email'])
  end

  attr_reader :id, :email

  def initialize(id:, email:)
    @id = id
    @email = email
  end
end
```

> Notice that we've immediately implemented the pattern from 'wrapping database data in program objects'. That is: `User.create` returns a `User` instance.

## 5. Presenting the User email to the signed-in user

We'd like our `views/bookmarks/index.erb` to welcome the user:

```html
<!-- in views/bookmarks/index.erb -->

<% if @user %>
  <h1>Welcome, <%= @user.email %></h1>
<% end %>
```

To get this working, let's work backwards from the view again.

How does `@user` get into the view? It will have to come from the controller. Specifically, from the route that renders this view. That's this one:

```ruby
# in app.rb

get '/bookmarks' do
  @user = ??? # where does this come from?
  @bookmarks = Bookmark.all
  erb :"bookmarks/index"  
end
```

Users are created in the `POST /users` route. Then, the user is redirected to the `GET /bookmarks` route. **To persist information across a redirect, we need to user the session.**

That is, we can get the `@user` from something like this:

```ruby
# in app.rb

get '/bookmarks' do
  # Fetch the user from the database, using an ID stored in the session
  @user = User.find(session[:user_id])
  @bookmarks = Bookmark.all
  erb :"bookmarks/index"  
end
```

> We could also store the entire user in the session. But there are good reasons we won't: one of them is that the session is very small, and can't store very much data.

We therefore need to _put_ the user in the session in the `POST /users` route. To summarise, here's how that will work:

1. `POST /users`, which calls `User.create`. Return a `User` instance (with an attribute of `id`) from the `.create` method.
2. Store the `id` in the `session`, and redirect from `POST /users` to `GET /`. Redirect from `GET /` to `GET /bookmarks`.
3. `GET /bookmarks`. `User.find` using the `id` in the `session`. Return a `User` instance from the `.find` method. Store that in an instance variable, `@user`.
4. Read the user's email from the `@user` instance variable.

Whew, that's a lot. But that's the standard for web applications! Let's built it out part-by-part.

### 1. Store the `id` of the `User` instance in the `session`

First, let's store the `id` of the returned `User` instance in the `session`:

```ruby
# in app.rb

post '/users' do
  user = User.create(email: params[:email], password: params[:password])
  session[:user_id] = user.id
  redirect('/bookmarks')
end
```

### 2. Find the User using the `id` stored in the `session`.

Let's return to the `GET /bookmarks` route. In it, we want to find the user from the session:

```ruby
# in app.rb

get '/bookmarks' do
  # Fetch the user from the database, using an ID stored in the session
  @user = User.find(session[:user_id])
  @bookmarks = Bookmark.all
  erb :"bookmarks/index"  
end
```

Let's create a test for finding the user in this way:

```ruby
# in spec/user_spec.rb

describe '.find' do
  it 'finds a user by ID' do
    user = User.create(email: 'test@example.com', password: 'password123')
    result = User.find(id: user)

    expect(result.id).to eq user.id
    expect(result.email).to eq user.email
  end
end
```

And the implementation in `User`:

```ruby
# in lib/user.rb

def self.find(id)
  result = DatabaseConnection.query("SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = '#{id}'")
  User.new(result[0]['id'], result[0]['email']])
end
```

Our tests are failing at the moment, because we're not handling the case where `session[:user_id]` is nil. Insert a simple test for this:

```ruby
# in spec/user_spec.rb

describe '.find' do
  it 'returns nil if there is no ID given' do
    expect(User.find(nil)).to eq nil
  end
end
```

And a guard clause in the `User.find` method:

```diff
def self.find(id)
+  return nil unless id
  result = DatabaseConnection.query("SELECT * FROM users WHERE id = '#{id}'")
  User.new(id: result[0]['id'], email: result[0]['email']])
end
```

Our tests pass: we have created a User model! Now to secure the password.

## 5. Secure the password

At current, our users' passwords are being stored as plaintext strings. This is no good: even a very amateur hacker could get access to everyone's passwords.

While you can write your own password security system yourself, it's generally recommended to use an off-the-shelf solution. Something like **BCrypt** is an industry-standard approach to securing passwords.

> You can think of BCrypt as a magic black box at the moment. If you're interested, do some research on it!

First, let's add `bcrypt` to our Gemfile:

```ruby
# in Gemfile

gem 'bcrypt'
```

And `bundle install`. Next, let's update our `create` command to pass the password through `BCrypt::Password` before saving the password to the database. Test-first, of course:

```ruby
# in spec/user_spec.rb

describe '.create' do
  it 'hashes the password using BCrypt' do
    expect(BCrypt::Password).to receive(:create).with('password123')

    User.create(email: 'test@example.com', password: 'password123')
  end
end
```

Let's update `User.create` to use `BCrypt::Password`:

```ruby
# in lib/user.rb

require 'bcrypt'

class User
  def self.create(email:, password:)
    # encrypt the plantext password
    encrypted_password = BCrypt::Password.create(password)

    # insert the encrypted password into the database, instead of the plaintext one
    result = DatabaseConnection.query("INSERT INTO users (email, password) VALUES('#{email}', '#{encrypted_password}') RETURNING id, email")

    User.new(id: result[0]['id'], email: result[0]['email'])
  end

  ### rest of the class ###
end
```

We're now storing passwords encrypted in the database.

[Next Challenge](../19_authentication.md)
