rails/introduction_to_rails.md, before:

# Introduction to Rails

Welcome to Rails week!

Rails is a popular Model View Controller (MVC) web applications framework. Sinatra, by comparison, is just a web applications framework. Unlike Sinatra, Rails provides guidance as to your higher level architecture such as patterns like MVC.  Rails is, well... like being on rails. There are fewer decisions for you to make, and more decisions that are made for you. It's 'opinionated'. It favours convention over configuration - the trick to enjoying Rails is to know the conventions and stick to them wherever possible.


## This Week's Project: Yelp

Yelp is a popular web application that allows users to rate and review restaurants, and find other diner's ratings and comments. For the rest of the week you will be building a clone of this site using Rails. 


* [Yelp Project Specification](yelp_project_specification.md)

## Learning Objectives

* [Learning Objectives](learning_objectives.md)

## Related Pills

* :pill: [MVC](../pills/mvc.md)
* :pill: [Rails console](../pills/rails_console.md)
* :pill: [Active Record](../pills/activerecord.md)

## Resources

* [Michael Hartl's Rails tutorial](http://www.railstutorial.org/book)
* [Getting Started with Rails](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)
* [Structure of Rails apps (diagram)](http://images.thoughtbot.com/ember-rails-terminology-differences/rails.png)
* [Active Record basics](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_basics.html)
* [Associations](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/association_basics.html)
* [Validations](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_validations.html)
* [Layouts and Rendering](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html)
* [Active Record Migrations](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/migrations.html)

Commit message:

add Rails project with some advice (and a minor refactor of the introduction)

rails/introduction_to_rails.md, after:

# Introduction to Rails

Welcome to Rails week!

Rails is a popular Model View Controller (MVC) web application framework. Sinatra, by comparison, is just a web application framework. Unlike Sinatra, Rails provides guidance as to your higher level architecture such as patterns like MVC.  

Rails is, well...like being 'on rails'. There are fewer decisions for you to make, and more decisions that are made for you. It's 'opinionated'. It favours _convention over configuration_ - the trick to enjoying Rails is to know the conventions and stick to them wherever possible. 

> You will find Rails infinitely easier to understand if you try to build a diagram of how all the parts fit together. You can iterate throughout the week. _There are lots of parts, and your biggest danger is getting overwhelmed._ Make sure you have a map with you!

## This Week's Project: Yelp

Yelp is a popular web application that allows users to rate and review restaurants, and find other diner's ratings and comments. For the rest of the week you will be building a clone of this site using Rails. 

There are two tracks: 

1. Build the project in teams, off the walkthrough; or 
2. Take the road oft travelled, and complete the project using the available materials.

Both tracks will take you to the same place, but Track 1 is entirely self-led. See the following specification for both.

* [Yelp Project Specification](yelp_project_specification.md)

## Learning Objectives

* [Learning Objectives](learning_objectives.md)

## Related Pills

* :pill: [MVC](../pills/mvc.md)
* :pill: [Rails console](../pills/rails_console.md)
* :pill: [Active Record](../pills/activerecord.md)

## Resources

* [Michael Hartl's Rails tutorial](http://www.railstutorial.org/book)
* [Getting Started with Rails](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html)
* [Structure of Rails apps (diagram)](http://images.thoughtbot.com/ember-rails-terminology-differences/rails.png)
* [Active Record basics](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_basics.html)
* [Associations](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/association_basics.html)
* [Validations](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_validations.html)
* [Layouts and Rendering](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html)
* [Active Record Migrations](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/migrations.html)
